INCLUDED TEXT:

CHAPTER VIII

=The Various Garnishes for Soups=

ROYALES.


206—ORDINARY ROYALE

Put one oz. of chervil into one pint of boiling consommé, cover the
saucepan, and let infusion proceed away from the fire for twenty
minutes. Now pour this infusion over two eggs and six yolks, beaten
briskly in a basin, and mix with the whisk. Strain through muslin,
and carefully remove therefrom the froth that has formed. Pour into
buttered moulds; poach in a _bain-marie_, as in the case of cream, and
take great care that the water in the _bain-marie_ does not boil.

According to the way in which the royale is to be divided, it may be
poached either in large or small “Charlotte” moulds; but the latter,
large and small alike, must be well buttered.

If the preparation be put into large moulds, thirty-five or forty
minutes should be allowed for poaching; if, on the other hand, the
moulds are small, about fifteen minutes would suffice.

Always let the royale cool in the moulds.


207—DESLIGNAC OR CREAM ROYALE

Boil one pint of thin cream, and pour it, little by little, over one
egg and six yolks, well whisked in a basin. Season with a little salt
and nutmeg, strain through muslin, and, for the poaching, follow the
directions given above.


208—CHICKEN ROYALE

Finely pound three oz. of cooked white chicken-meat, and add thereto
three tablespoonfuls of cold Béchamel. Put this paste in a bowl, season
with a little salt and a dash of nutmeg, dilute with one-fifth pint of
cream, and strain through tammy.

Thicken this preparation with one egg and the yolks of three, and poach
in small or large moulds, in accordance with the procedure already
described.


209—GAME ROYALE

Finely pound three oz. of the cooked meat of that game which gives its
name to the preparation, and add three tablespoonfuls of cold Espagnole
Sauce and one-fifth pint of rich cream, in small quantities at a time.
Warm the seasoning with a very little cayenne, strain through tammy,
thicken with one egg and three yolks, and poach as before.


210—FISH ROYALE

Stew in butter four oz. of fillet of sole cut into cubes, or the same
quantity of any other fish suited to the nature of the intended soup.
Cool, pound finely, and add, little by little, two tablespoonfuls of
cold Béchamel and one-quarter pint of cream. Season with salt and a
pinch of nutmeg, and strain through tammy. Thicken by means of the
yolks of five eggs, and poach in large or small moulds.


211—CARROT OR CRÉCY ROYALE

Stew gently in butter five oz. of the red part only of carrots. Cool,
crush in a mortar, and gradually add two tablespoonfuls of Béchamel
and one-fifth pint of rich cream. Season with table-salt and a pinch
of castor sugar, and deepen the tint of the royale with a few drops
of vegetable red. Strain through tammy, thicken with one egg and four
yolks, put into moulds, and poach.


212—FRESH PEAS OR ST. GERMAIN ROYALE

Cook one-half lb. of fresh, small peas in boiling water with a bunch
of chervil and a few leaves of fresh mint. Pass through a sieve, and
dilute the resulting purée (in a saucepan) with two-fifths of its
volume of the liquor it has been cooked in and one-fifth of cream.
Add a little sugar, the necessary salt, one egg, and two yolks. Pass
through a fine strainer, and poach in well-buttered moulds.


213—VARIOUS ROYALES

Royales may also be made with leeks, celery, &c., the procedure being
as follows:—

Finely mince six or seven oz. of the chosen vegetable; stew the same
gently and thoroughly in butter, and strain through tammy. Add to the
resulting purée three tablespoonfuls of Béchamel, one-fifth pint of
cream, two eggs, and four yolks. Put into large or small moulds, and
poach.

_Remarks._—In order that these royales may have the required delicacy,
I should urge the reader not to exceed the prescribed quantities of
eggs and yolks, these being so calculated as to exactly produce the
density required.


214—THE DIVIDING-UP OF ROYALES

When the poaching is done take the mould or moulds out of water, and
leave the royale to cool in them. Do not turn out the moulds whilst the
preparation is hot, as it would surely scatter. It only assumes the
necessary solidity for being divided up by means of the aggregation and
contraction of its various constituents during the cooling process.

_If the royale has been poached in small moulds_, slightly trim the
cylinders of _royale_, divide them up laterally into discs, and stamp
them uniformly with a plain or indented fancy cutter.

_If the royale has been poached in large moulds_, withdraw it from
these, and place it on a serviette; trim the tops, cut into half-inch
slices, and stamp with small, fancy cutters of different shapes. These
little divisions of _royale_ must always be stamped very neatly and
quite regularly.


215—CHIFFONADE

The name “_Chiffonade_” is given to a mince of sorrel or lettuce,
intended as a complement for such soups as “Potage de santé,” “le
Germiny,” &c., or various clear consommés like “Julienne.”

To prepare _Chiffonade_, first carefully shred the sorrel or lettuce,
and remove therefrom all the leaf-ribs. Carefully wash the leaves, and
squeeze the latter tightly between the fingers of the left hand and the
table. Now cut them into fine strips with a sharp knife.

If the chiffonade be intended for a consommé, add it to the latter
half an hour before dishing up; it is thus actually cooked in the soup
itself. If, as is most often the case, it be intended for a thick soup,
it is better to let it melt well in butter, to moisten it with a little
consommé, and to let it boil for ten minutes before adding it to the
soup.

Whatever the purpose be for which it is made, _chiffonade_ should
always be prepared with very tender sorrel or lettuce.


216—DIRECTIONS FOR SOUP WITH PASTES

Vermicelli and the various Italian pastes should measure about
three oz. per quart of consommé. They should first be thrown into
boiling, salted water, where they are left to poach for three minutes,
whereupon they are drained, cooled, and their cooking is completed in
the consommé.

The parboiling of these pastes is necessary in order to get rid of the
little agglomerations of flour which adhere to them, and which would
otherwise make the consommé cloudy.

Tapioca, sago, salep, &c., should also be apportioned at about
three oz. per quart. But this is only an average, for the quality of
this kind of products varies greatly, and it is best to choose the
goods of an excellent maker, and, in order to avoid surprises, to abide
by that choice.

These products need no parboiling; they are merely sprinkled into the
boiling consommé while stirring the latter, and they are left to cook
until the soup is quite clear. The boiling should be gentle, and the
scum should be removed as often as it forms.

The time allowed for cooking naturally varies in accordance with the
quality of the goods, but the absolute transparency of the consommé is
an infallible sign of its having been completed.

Brazilian, Japanese, and other pearls are used in the same quantities,
but they should poach for thirty minutes if required to be very
transparent.


217—THREADED EGGS

Beat up three eggs in a bowl, season with salt and pepper, and strain
through a sieve. Now pour the eggs into a fine strainer, hold same over
a sautépan containing some boiling consommé, and shift it about in such
wise as to let the egg fall in threads into the boiling liquid beneath,
and thus immediately coagulate. Drain the egg-threads very carefully
lest they break.


218—PROFITEROLLES FOR SOUPS

These consist of little choux about the size of a large hazel-nut,
stuffed with some kinds of purée, such as that of _foie gras_ with
cream, or of chicken, or of vegetables, &c. Four _profiterolles_ should
be allowed for each person.

To make _profiterolles_, put a few tablespoonfuls of “_pâte à choux_”
without sugar (Recipe 2374) into a piping-bag fitted with a smooth pipe,
whose orifice should be about one-quarter inch in diameter. Squeeze out
portions of the preparation on to a tray, so as to form balls about the
size of a small hazel-nut; _gild_ by means of beaten egg applied with a
fine brush, and cook in a moderate oven.

Do not take the _profiterolles_ from the oven until they are quite dry.
