INCLUDED TEXT:

CHAPTER V

SAVOURY JELLIES OR ASPICS


Jellies are to cold cookery what consommés and stock are to hot.
If anything, the former are perhaps more important, for a cold
entrée—however perfect it may be in itself—is nothing without its
accompanying jelly.

In the recipes which I give hereafter I have made a point of showing
how melting jellies may be obtained, _i.e._, served in a sauce-boat
simultaneously with the cold comestible, or actually poured over it
when the latter lies in a deep dish—a common custom nowadays.

This method of serving cold entrées, which I inaugurated at the Savoy
Hotel with the “Suprême de Volaille Jeannette,” is the only one which
allows of serving a jelly in a state of absolute perfection.

Nevertheless, if a more solid jelly were required, either for the
decking of cold dishes or for a moulded entrée, there need only
be added to the following formulæ a few gelatine leaves—more or
less—according to the required firmness of the jelly.

But it should not be forgotten that the greater the viscosity of the
jelly the less value will the same possess.

The various uses of jellies are dealt with in Part II. of this work,
where the formulæ of their divers accompanying dishes will also appear.


158—ORDINARY ASPICS

_Stock for Ordinary Aspic.—Quantities for making Four Quarts._

  4 lbs. of strung knuckle of veal.
  3 lbs. of strung knuckle of beef.
  3 lbs. of veal bones, well broken up.
  3 calf’s feet, boned and blanched.
  ½ lb. of fresh pork rind, well blanched and with fat removed.

_Mode of Procedure._—Put the meats in a very clean and well-tinned
stockpot or stewpan. Add eight quarts of cold water, boil, and skim
after the manner indicated under Recipe 1. Having well skimmed the stock
add one oz. of salt, put it on the side of the fire, and let it boil
gently for four hours. Then remove the meat, taking care not to disturb
the stock. Carefully remove the fat, and garnish with one-half lb. of
carrots, six oz. of onions, two oz. of leeks, a stick of celery, and a
large faggot. Put the whole back on to the fire and cook gently for a
further two hours. Strain through a sieve into a very clean basin and
leave to cool.

_Clarification of Aspic._—When the stock, prepared according to the
above directions, has cooled, the grease that has formed on its surface
should be removed. Then pour off gently into a stewpan of convenient
size in such a way as to prevent the deposit at the bottom of the basin
from mixing with the clear liquor. Test the consistence of the aspic,
when it should be found that the quantities given above have proved
sufficient to form a fairly firm jelly. If, however, this be not the
case, a few leaves of gelatine steeped in cold water should be added,
being careful not to overdo the quantity. Now add to the stock two lbs.
of lean beef (first minced and then pounded together with the white of
an egg), a little chervil and tarragon, and a few drops of lemon-juice.
Place the saucepan on an open fire, stir its contents with a spatula
until the liquid begins to boil, remove it from the fire, and place it
on the side of the stove, where it may boil gently for half an hour.

At the end of this time take the saucepan off the fire and remove what
little grease has formed on the aspic while cooking. Strain through
a serviette stretched and fastened across the legs of an overturned
stool, and let the aspic fall into a basin placed between the legs.
Ascertain whether the liquid is quite clear, and if, as frequently
happens, this be not the case, what has already been strained should
once more be passed through the serviette, renewing the operation
until the aspic becomes quite transparent.

_Flavouring the Aspic._—The aspic obtained as above is limpid, has an
agreeable savour, and is the colour of fine amber. It now only requires
flavouring according to the tastes of the consumer and the purpose for
which it is intended. For this operation it should be allowed to become
quite tepid, and the following quantities of choice wine are added to
it, viz.:—

If the wine is of a liqueur kind, such as Sherry, Marsala,
Madeira, &c., one-fifth pint per quart.

If it is another kind of wine, for example, champagne, hock, &c.,
one-fourth pint per quart.

The wine used should be very clear, free from any deposit, and as
perfect as possible in taste.


159—CHICKEN ASPIC

The quantities of meat are the same as for ordinary aspic; there need
only be added to it either two oven-browned hens, or their equivalent
in weight of roasted fowl carcases, and poultry giblets if these are
handy. It is always better, however, to prepare the stock with the
hens and giblets and to keep the carcases for the clarification. This
clarification follows the same rules as that of the ordinary aspic,
except that a few roasted-fowl carcases, previously well freed from
fat, are added to it.

In the case of this particularly delicate aspic, it is more than ever
necessary not to overdo the amount of gelatine. It should be easily
soluble to the palate in order to be perfect.


160—GAME ASPIC

Prepare this aspic stock in exactly the same way as that of ordinary
aspic, only substitute game, such as deer, roebuck, doe, or hare,
or wild rabbit (previously browned in the oven), for the beef. When
possible also add to this stock a few old specimens of feathered game,
such as partridges or pheasants that are too tough for other purposes
and which suit admirably here.

The clarification changes according to the different flavours which are
to be given to the aspic. If it is not necessary to give it a special
characteristic, it should be prepared with the meat of that ground game
which happens to be most available at the time, adding to the quantity
used roast carcases of feathered game, the respective amounts of both
ingredients being the same as for ordinary aspic. If, on the other
hand, the aspic is to have a well-defined flavour, the meat used for
the clarification should naturally be that producing the flavour in
question, _i.e._, either partridge or pheasant, or hazel-hen, &c.

Some aspics are greatly improved by being flavoured with a small
quantity of old brandy. Rather than use an inferior kind of this
ingredient, however, I should advise its total omission from the aspic.

Without aromatisation the aspic, though imperfect, is passable; but
aromatised with bad brandy it is invariably spoilt.


LENTEN ASPICS


161—FISH ASPIC WITH WHITE WINE

The stock for this aspic is prepared in precisely the same manner as
fish stock, Recipe 1. The stewpan need not, however, be buttered previous
to the insertion of the onions, parsley-stalks, and fish-bones. If the
aspic is not required to be quite white, a little saffron may be added
to it, as the aroma of this condiment blends so perfectly with that of
fish.

When the stock is prepared its consistence should be tested, and
rectified, if necessary, by means of gelatine. The quantity of this
substance should on no account exceed eight leaves per quart of aspic,
and, at the risk of repeating myself, I remind the reader that the less
gelatine is used the better the aspic will be.

The clarification should be made with fresh caviare if possible,
but pressed caviare is also admirably suited to this purpose. The
quantities are the same as for the clarification of fish consommé,
Recipe 4.

In flavouring white fish aspics either dry champagne or a good Bordeaux
or Burgundy may be used. Take care, however—

1. That the wine used be of an unquestionably good quality.

2. That it be only added to the aspic when the latter is already
cold and on the point of coagulating, as this is the only means of
preserving all the aroma of the wine.

Finally, in certain cases, a special flavour may be obtained by the use
of crayfish, which are cooked, as for bisque, then pounded, and added
to the fish stock Recipe 11 ten minutes before straining it. A proportion
of four little crayfish à bisque per quart of aspic is sufficient to
secure an excellent aroma.


162—FISH ASPIC WITH RED WINE

This aspic stock is the _Court-bouillon_ with red wine Recipe 165, which
has served in cooking the fish for which the aspic is intended; this
fish is generally either trout or salmon; sometimes also, but less
commonly, a carp or a pike.

This stock must first of all have its grease thoroughly removed; it
should then be poured carefully away, reduced if necessary, and the
required quantity of gelatine added. This cannot be easily determined,
as all gelatines are not alike, and the stock may have contracted a
certain consistence from its contact with the fish. One can, therefore,
only be guided by testing small quantities cooled in ice, but care
should be taken that the aspic be not too firm.

The clarification of this aspic is generally made with white of egg
in the proportion of one white per quart. The white, half-whisked,
is added to the cold stock, and the latter is put over an open fire
and stirred with a spatula. As soon as it boils, the aspic is poured
through a serviette fixed on to the legs of an overturned stool. The
first drippings of the fluid are put back on to the serviette if they
do not seem clear, and this operation is repeated until the required
clearness is obtained.

It almost invariably happens that, either during the cooking of the
fish or during the clarification, the wine loses its colour through the
precipitation of the colouring elements derived from the tannin.

The only way of overcoming this difficulty is to add a few drops of
liquid carmine or vegetable red; but, in any case, it is well to
remember that the colour of red-wine aspic must never be deeper than a
sombre pink.
