INCLUDED TEXT:

CHAPTER X

=Leading Culinary Operations=


236—THE PREPARATION OF SOUPS

The nutritious liquids known under the name of Soups are of
comparatively recent origin. Indeed, as they are now served, they
do not date any further back than the early years of the nineteenth
century.

The soups of old cookery were, really, complete dishes, wherein the
meats and vegetables used in their preparation were assembled. They,
moreover, suffered from the effects of the general confusion which
reigned in the menus of those days. These menus seem to have depended
in no wise, for their items, upon the progressive satisfaction of the
consumers’ appetites, and a long procession of dishes was far more
characteristic of the meal than their judicious order and diversity.

In this respect, as in so many others, Carême was the reformer, and,
if he were not, strictly speaking, the actual initiator of the changes
which ushered in our present methods, he certainly had a large share in
the establishment of the new theories.

Nevertheless, it took his followers almost a century to bring soups to
the perfection of to-day, for modern cookery has replaced those stodgy
dishes of yore by comparatively simple and savoury preparations which
are veritable wonders of delicacy and taste. Now, my attention has been
called to the desirability of drawing up some sort of classification
of soups, if only with the view of obviating the absurdity of placing
such preparations as are indiscriminately called Bisque, Purée, Cullis,
or Cream under the same head. Logically, each preparation should have
its own special formula, and it is impossible to admit that one and the
same can apply to all.

It is generally admitted that the terms _Veloutés_ and _Creams_, whose
introduction into the vocabulary of cookery is comparatively recent,
are peculiarly well suited to supplant those of _Bisque_ and _Cullis_,
which are steadily becoming obsolete, as well as that too vulgar
term _Purée_. Considerations of this kind naturally led me to a new
classification of soups, and this I shall disclose later.

I shall not make any lengthy attempt here to refute the arguments of
certain autocrats of the dinner-table who, not so many years ago, urged
the total abolition of soups. I shall only submit to their notice
the following quotation from Grimod de la Reynière, one of our most
illustrious gastronomists: “Soup is to a dinner what the porch or
gateway is to a building,” that is to say, it must not only form the
first portion thereof, but it must be so devised as to convey some idea
of the whole to which it belongs; or, after the manner of an overture
in a light opera, it should divulge what is to be the dominant phrase
of the melody throughout.

I am at one with Grimod in this, and believe that soups have come to
stay. Of all the items on a menu, soup is that which exacts the most
delicate perfection and the strictest attention, for upon the first
impression it gives to the diner the success of the latter part of the
meal largely depends.

Soups should be served as hot as possible in very warm plates,
especially in the case of consommés when these have been preceded by
cold hors-d’œuvres.

Hors-d’œuvres are pointless in a dinner, and even when oysters stand as
such they should only be allowed at meals which include no soup.

Those hors-d’œuvres which consist of various fish, smoked or in oil,
and strongly seasoned salads, leave a disagreeable taste on the
consumer’s palate and make the soup which follows seem flat and insipid
if the latter be not served boiling hot.


=Classification of Soups=

This includes (1) clear soups, (2) thick soups, (3) special soups of
various kinds, (4) classical vegetable soups, including some local
preparations.


237—CLEAR SOUPS

Clear soups, of whatever nature the base thereof may be, whether
butcher’s meat, poultry, game, fish, shell-fish, or turtle, &c., are
made according to one method only. They are always clear consommés to
which has been added a slight garnish in keeping with the nature of the
consommé.


238—THICK SOUPS

These are divided into three leading classes as follows:—(1) The
Purées, Cullises, or Bisques. (2) Various Veloutés. (3) Various Creams.

_Remarks._—Though the three preparations of the first class are
practically the same, and, generally speaking, the Cullises and the
Bisques may be considered as purées of fowl, game, or shell-fish, it is
advisable to distinguish one from another by giving each a special name
of its own.

Thus the word _Purée_ is most suitably applied to any preparation with
a vegetable base. The term _Cullis_ is best fitted to preparations
having either poultry, game, or fish for base, while bisque, in spite
of the fact that in former days it was applied indiscriminately to
purées of shell-fish, poultry, pigeons, &c., distinctly denotes a purée
of shell-fish (either lobster, crayfish, or shrimp, &c.).

In short, it is imperative to avoid all ambiguities and to give
everything its proper name, or, at least, that name which identifies it
most correctly.


239—PURÉES

Farinaceous vegetables, such as haricot-beans and lentils, and the
floury ones, such as the potato, need no additional thickening
ingredient, since the flour or fecula which they contain amply suffices
for the leason of their purées.

On the other hand, aqueous vegetables like carrots, pumpkins, turnips,
celery, and herbs cannot dispense with a thickening ingredient, as
their purées of themselves do not cohere in the least.

_Cohering or Thickening Elements; their Quantities._—In order to effect
the coherence of vegetable purées, either rice, potato, or bread-crumb
cut into dice and fried in butter may be used.

The proportion of these per pound of vegetables should be respectively
three oz., ten oz., and ten oz. Bread-crumb dice, prepared as described
above, were greatly used in old cookery, and they lend a mellowness to
a purée which is quite peculiar to them.

_The Dilution of Purées._—Generally this is done by means of ordinary
white consommé, though in certain cases, as, for instance, if the soup
is a Lenten one, milk is used.

_The Finishing._—When the purées have been strained and brought to the
required consistence they should be boiled and stirred. Then they are
placed on the side of the fire to simmer for twenty-five or thirty
minutes. It is at this stage that they are purified by means of the
careful removal of all the scum that forms on their surface.

When dishing up complete them, away from the fire, with three oz. of
butter per quart of soup, and pass them once more through a strainer.

_Purée Garnishes._—These are usually either small fried crusts, small
dice of potato fried in butter, a _chiffonade_, some kind of little
_brunoise_, or, more generally, chervil _pluches_.


240—CULLISES

Cullises have for their base either poultry, game, or fish.

_The thickening ingredients used are_:—

_For fowl_, two or three oz. of rice, or three-quarters pint of poultry
velouté per lb. of fowl.

_For game_, three or four oz. of lentils, or three-quarters pint of
game Espagnole per lb. of game.

_For fish_, a clear panada made up of French bread soaked in boiling
salted milk. Use five oz. of bread and one good pint of milk per lb.
of fish. Having strained and made up the Cullises, boil them while
stirring (except in the case of fish cullises, which must not boil,
and must be served as soon as they are made), then place them in a
_bain-marie_ and butter their surfaces lest a skin should form.

At the last moment complete them with two or three oz. of butter per
quart.

The garnish of poultry or game cullises consists of either small dice
of game or fowl-fillets, which should be kept aside for the purpose;
a fine _julienne_ of these fillets, or small quenelles made from the
latter, raw.

The garnish of fish cullis is generally fish-fillets poached in butter
and cut up into small dice or in _julienne-fashion_.


241—BISQUES

The invariable base of Bisques is shell-fish cooked in _mirepoix_.

Their thickening ingredients are, or may be, rice, fish velouté, or
crusts of bread fried in butter, the proportion being three oz. of
rice, ten oz. of bread-crusts, or three-quarters pint of fish velouté
per lb. of shell-fish cooked in _mirepoix_ (Recipe 228).

When the soup is strained, treat it in precisely the same way as the
cullises.

The garnish consists of small dice of the meat from the shell-fish
used. These pieces should have been put aside from the first.


242—THE VELOUTÉS

These differ from the purées, cullises, and bisques in that their
invariable thickening element is a velouté whose preparation is in
harmony with the nature of the ingredients of the soup, these being
either vegetables, poultry, game, fish, or shell-fish.

_The Preparation of the Velouté._—Allow three and one-half oz. of white
roux per quart of the diluent. This diluent should be ordinary consommé
for a velouté of vegetables or herbs, chicken consommé for a poultry
velouté, or very clear fish _fumet_ for a fish or shell-fish velouté.
The procedure is exactly the same as that described under Recipe 25 of the
leading sauces.

_The Apportionment of the Ingredients._—In general, the quantities of
each constituent are in the following proportion:—Velouté, one-half;
the purée of the substance which characterises the soup, one-quarter;
the consommé used to bring the soup to its proper consistence,
one-quarter. In respect of finishing ingredients, use, for thickening,
the yolks of three eggs and one-fifth pint of cream per quart of soup.

Thus for four quarts of poultry velouté we arrive at the following
quantities:—

Poultry velouté, three pints; purée of fowl obtained from a cleaned and
drawn hen weighing about three lbs., one quart; consommé for regulating
consistence, one quart; leason, twelve yolks and four-fifths pint of
cream.

_Rules Relative to the Preparation._—If the velouté is to be of
lettuce, chicory, celery, or mixed herbs, these ingredients are scalded
for five minutes, drained, gently stewed in butter, and added to the
prepared velouté in which their cooking is completed.

If carrots, turnips, onions, &c., are to be treated, finely mince them,
stew them in butter without allowing them to acquire any colour, and
add them to the velouté.

If fowl be the base, cook it in the velouté. This done, withdraw it,
remove the meat, finely pound same, and add it to the velouté, which is
then rubbed through tammy.

In the case of fish the procedure is the same as for fowl. For game,
roast or _sauté_ the selected piece, bone it, finely pound the meat,
and combine the latter with the velouté, which should then be rubbed
through tammy.

For shell-fish, cook these in a _mirepoix_, finely pound them together
with the latter, add to the velouté, and pass the whole through tammy.

_The Completing of Velouté._—Having passed the soup through tammy,
bring it to its proper degree of consistence with the necessary
quantity of consommé, boil while stirring, and place in a _bain-marie_.

At the last moment finish the soup with the leason and two oz. of
butter per quart of liquid.

_Garnish for Velouté._—In the case of vegetables: _Chiffonade_, fine
_printaniers_, or _brunoise_.

For fowl and game: The fillets of one or the other, poached and cut
into small dice or in _julienne-fashion_; little quenelles made with
the raw fillets, or either fowl or game royales.

For fish: Small dice or fine _julienne_ of fish fillets poached in
butter.

For shell-fish: Small dice of cooked shell-fish meat put aside for the
purpose.

_Remarks._—In certain circumstances these garnishes are increased by
means of three tablespoonfuls of poached rice per quart of the soup.


243—THE CREAMS

Practically speaking, the preparation of the creams is the same as that
of the veloutés, but for the following exceptions:—

  1. In all circumstances, _i.e._, whatever be the nature of the soup,
     velouté is substituted for clear Béchamel.
  2. The correct consistence of the soup is got by means of milk
     instead of consommé.
  3. Creams do not require egg-yolk leasons.
  4. They are not buttered, but they are finished with one-fifth or
     two-fifths pint of fresh cream per quart.

Creams allow of the same garnishes as the veloutés.


244—SPECIAL SOUPS AND THICKENED CONSOMMÉS

These are of different kinds, though their preparation remains the
same, and they do not lend themselves to the requirements of veloutés
or creams. I should quote as types of this class the Ambassador, à
l’Américaine, Darblay, Faubonne, &c.

The same holds good with thickened consommés, such as “Germiny,”
“Coquelin,” &c.


245—VEGETABLE SOUPS

These soups, of which the “Paysanne” is the radical type, do not
demand very great precision in the apportionment of the vegetables
of which they are composed; but they need great care and attention,
notwithstanding.

The vegetables, in the majority of cases, must undergo a long stewing
in butter, an operation the object of which is to expel their vegetable
moisture and to saturate them with butter.

In respect of others which have a local character, the vegetables
should be cooked with the diluent, without a preparatory stewing.


246—FOREIGN SOUPS

In the course of Part II. of this work I shall allude to certain soups
which have a foreign origin, and whose use, although it may not be
general, is yet sufficiently common. If only for the sake of novelty
or variety, it is occasionally permissible to poach upon the preserves
of foreign nations; but apart from this there exist among the recipes
of foreigners many which can but enrich their adopter, besides being
generally appreciated.


=2. Braising, Poaching, Sautés, and Poëling.=

Except for the roasts, grills, and fryings, which will be discussed
later, all culinary operations dealing with meat are related to one of
the four following methods: Braising, _poëling_, poaching, and sautés.

These four methods of cooking belong, however, to the sauces, and this
explains how it is that the latter hold such a pre-eminent position in
French cookery.

Before devoting any attention to particular formulæ, which will be
given in the second part of this work, it seemed desirable to me to
recapitulate in a general way the theory of each of these cooking
methods. These theories are of paramount importance, since it is only
with a complete knowledge of them that good results may be obtained by
the culinary operator.


247—ORDINARY BRAISINGS

Of all the various culinary operations, braisings are the most
expensive and the most difficult. Long and assiduous practice alone
can teach the many difficulties that this mode of procedure entails,
for it is one which demands extraordinary care and the most constant
attention. Over and above the question of care and that of the quality
of meat used, which latter consideration is neither more nor less
important here than in any other cooking operation, there are also
these conditions to be fulfilled in order that a good braising may be
obtained, namely, that excellent stock should be used in moistening,
and that the braising base be well prepared.

_Meats that are Braised._—Mutton and beef are braised in the ordinary
way, but veal, lamb, and poultry are braised in a manner which I shall
treat of later.

Meat intended for braising need not, as in the case of roasts, be
that of young beasts. The best for the purpose is that derived from
an animal of three to six years of age in the case of beef, and one
to two years in the case of mutton. Good meat is rarely procured from
animals more advanced than these in years, and, even so, should it be
used, it would not only be necessary to protract the time of cooking
inordinately, but the resulting food would probably be fibrous and dry.

Properly speaking, meat derived from old or ill-nourished beasts only
answers two purposes in cookery, viz., the preparation of consommés and
that of various kinds of stock.

_The Larding of Meats for Braising._—When the meat to be braised is
ribs or fillet of beef, it is always interlarded, and consequently
never dry if of decent quality. But this is not the case with the meat
of the rumps, or with leg of mutton. These meats are not sufficiently
fat of themselves to allow of prolonged cooking without their becoming
dry. For this reason they are larded with square strips of bacon fat,
which should be as long as the meat under treatment, and about half an
inch thick. These strips of fat are first seasoned with pepper, nutmeg,
and spices, besprinkled with chopped parsley, and then _marinaded_ for
two hours in a little brandy. They should be inserted into the meat
equidistantly by means of special larding needles. The proportion of
fat to the meat should be about three oz. per lb.

_To Marinade Braisings._—Larded or not, the meats intended for braising
gain considerably from being _marinaded_ for a few hours in the wines
which are to supply their moistening and the aromatics constituting the
base of their liquor. Before doing this season them with salt, pepper,
and spices, rolling them over and over in these in order that they may
absorb the seasoning thoroughly. Then place them in a receptacle just
large enough to contain them, between two litters of aromatics, which
will be detailed hereafter; cover them with the wine which forms part
of their braising-liquor, and which is generally a white or red “vin
ordinaire,” in the proportion of one-quarter pint per lb. of meat, and
leave them to _marinade_ for about six hours, taking care to turn them
over three or four times during that period.

_The Aromatics or Base of the Braising._—These are thickly sliced and
fried carrots and onions, in the proportion of one oz. per lb. of meat,
one faggot, including one garlic clove and one and one-half oz. of
fresh, blanched bacon-rind.

_To Fry, Prepare, and Cook Braised Meat._—Having sufficiently
_marinaded_ the meat, drain it on a sieve for half an hour, and wipe
it dry with a clean piece of linen. Heat some clarified fat of white
consommé in a thick saucepan of convenient size, or a braising-pan,
and when it is sufficiently hot put the meat in the saucepan and let
it acquire colour on all sides. The object of this operation is to
cause a contraction of the pores of the meat, thereby surrounding the
latter with a species of cuirass, which prevents the inner juices from
escaping too soon and converting the braising into a boiling process.
The frying should, therefore, be a short or lengthy process according
as to whether the amount of meat to be braised be small or large.

Having properly fried the meat, withdraw it from the braising-pan,
cover it with slices of larding-bacon if it be lean, and string it. In
the case of fillets and ribs of beef, this treatment may be dispensed
with, as they are sufficiently well supplied with their own fat.

Now pour the _marinade_ prepared for the meat into the braising-pan,
and place the meat on a litter composed of the vegetables the
_marinade_ contained. Cover the pan and rapidly reduce the wine
therein. When this has assumed the consistency of syrup add sufficient
brown stock to cover the meat (it being understood that the latter only
just conveniently fills the pan), cover the braising-pan, set to boil,
and then put it in a moderate oven. Let the meat cook until it may be
deeply pricked with a braiding needle without any blood being drawn.
At this stage the first phase of braising, whereof the theory shall
be given hereafter, comes to an end, and the meat is transferred to
another clean utensil just large enough to hold it.

With respect to the cooking liquor, either of the two following modes
of procedure may now be adopted:—

1. If the liquor is required to be clear it need only be strained, over
the meat, through muslin, while the braising-pan should be placed in
the oven, where the cooking may go on until completed, interrupting it
only from time to time in order to baste the meat. This done, thicken
the liquor with arrow-root, after the manner of an ordinary thickened
gravy (Recipe 41).

2. If, on the contrary, a sauce be required, the liquor should
be reduced to half before being put back on the meat, and it is
restored to its former volume by means of two-thirds of its quantity
of Espagnole sauce and one-third of tomato purée, or an equivalent
quantity of fresh tomatoes.

The cooking of the meat is completed in this sauce, and the basting
should be carried on as before. When it is cooked—that is to say, when
the point of a knife may easily be thrust into it without meeting with
any resistance whatsoever—it should be carefully withdrawn from the
sauce; the latter should be again strained through muslin and then
left to rest, with a view to letting the grease settle on the surface.

Carefully remove this grease, and rectify the sauce with a little
excellent stock if it is too thick, or by reduction if it is too thin.

_The Glazing of Braised Meat._—Braised meat is glazed in order to make
it more sightly, but this operation is by no means essential, and it is
quite useless when the meat is cut up previous to being served.

To glaze meat place it as soon as cooked in the front of the oven,
sprinkle it slightly with its cooking liquor (gravy or sauce), and push
it into the oven so that this liquor may dry. Being very gelatinous,
the latter adheres to the meat, while its superfluous water evaporates,
and thus coats the solid with a thin film of meat-glaze. This operation
is renewed eight or ten times, whereupon the meat is withdrawn from the
oven, placed on a dish, and covered until it is served.

_Various Remarks relative to Braising._—When a braised meat is to be
accompanied by vegetables, as in the case of beef à la mode, these
vegetables may either be cooked with the meat during the second
braising phase, after they have been duly coloured in butter with a
little salt and sugar, or they may be cooked separately with a portion
of the braising-liquor. The first procedure is the better, but it
lends itself less to a correct final dressing. It is, therefore, the
operator’s business to decide according to circumstances which is the
more suitable of the two.

I pointed out above that the cooking of braised meat consists of two
phases, and I shall now proceed to discuss each of these, so that the
reader may thoroughly understand their processes.

It has been seen that meat, to be braised, must in the first place be
fried all over, and this more particularly when it is very thick. The
object of this operation is to hold in the meat’s juices, which would
otherwise escape from the cut surfaces. Now, this frying produces a
kind of cuirass around the flesh, which gradually thickens during
the cooking process until it reaches the centre. Under the influence
of the heat of the surrounding liquor the meat fibres contract, and
steadily drive the contained juices towards the centre. Soon the heat
reaches the centre, where, after having effected a decomposition of the
juices therein collected, the latter release the superfluous water they
contain. This water quickly vaporises, and by so doing distends and
separates the tissues surrounding it. Thus, during this first phase, a
concentration of juices takes place in the centre of the meat. It will
now be seen that they undergo an absolutely different process in the
second.

As shown, the disaggregation of the muscular tissue begins in the
centre of the meat as soon as the temperature which reaches there is
sufficiently intense to vaporise the collected juices. The tension
of the vapour given off by the latter perforce increases by dint of
finding no issue; it therefore exerts considerable pressure upon the
tissues, though now its direction is the reverse of what it was in the
first place, _i.e._, from the centre to the periphery.

Gradually the tissues relax under the pressure and the effects of
cooking, and, the work of disaggregation having gradually reached
the fried surface, the latter also relaxes in its turn and allows
the constrained juices to escape and to mix with the sauce. At the
same time, however, the latter begins to filter through the meat, and
this it does in accordance with a well-known physical law, namely,
capillarity. This stage of the braising demands the most attentive
care. The braising-liquor is found to be considerably reduced and no
longer covers the meat, for the operation is nearing its end. The bared
meat would, therefore, dry very quickly, if care were not taken to
baste it constantly and to turn it over and over, so that the whole
of the muscular tissue is moistened and thoroughly saturated with the
sauce. By this means the meat acquires that mellowness which is typical
of braisings and distinguishes them from other preparations.

I should be loth to dismiss this subject before pointing out two
practices in the cooking of braisings which are as common as they are
absolutely wrong. The first of these is the “_pinçage_” of the braising
base. Instead of laying the fried meat on a litter of aromatics,
likewise fried beforehand, many operators place the meat, which they
often omit to fry, on raw aromatics at the bottom of the braising-pan.
The whole is sprinkled with a little melted fat, and the aromatics are
left to fry, on one side only, until they begin to burn on the bottom
of the receptacle.

If this operation were properly conducted it might be tolerated, even
though aromatics which are only fried on one side cannot exude the same
savour as those which are fried all over. But nine times out of ten the
frying is too lengthy a process; from neglect or absent-mindedness the
aromatics are left to burn on the bottom of the pan, and there results
a bitterness which pervades and spoils the whole sauce.

As a matter of fact, this process of “_pinçage_” is an absurd
caricature of a method of preparing braisings which was very common in
old cookery, the custom of which was not to prepare the braising-liquor
in advance, but to cook it and its ingredients simultaneously with the
meat to be braised. This method, though excellent, was very expensive,
the meats forming the base of the braising-liquor consisting of thick
slices of raw ham or veal. The observance of economy, therefore,
long ago compelled cooks to abandon this procedure. But routine has
perpetuated the _form_ of the latter without insisting upon the use of
its constituents, which were undoubtedly its essential part. Routine
has even, in certain cases, aggravated the first error by instituting
a habit consisting of substituting bones for the meats formerly
employed—an obviously ridiculous practice.

In the production of ordinary consommé (Recipe 1) we saw that bones, even
when taken from veal, as is customary in the case of braising-liquor,
require, at the very least, ten to twelve hours of cooking before
they can yield all their soluble properties. As a proof of this it is
interesting to note that, if bones undergo only five or six hours of
cooking, and are moistened afresh and cooked for a further six hours,
the liquor of the second cooking yields more meat-glaze than that of
the first; though it must be admitted that, while the latter is more
gelatinous, it has less savour. But this gelatinous property of bones
is no less useful to braisings than is their savour, since it is the
former that supplies the mellowness, which nothing can replace and
without which the sauce can have no quality.

Since, therefore, the longest time that a braising can cook is from
four to five hours, it follows that, if bones be added thereto, their
properties will scarcely have begun disaggregating when the meat is
cooked. They will, in fact, have yielded but an infinitesimal portion
of these properties; wherefore their addition to the braising is, to
say the least, quite useless.

It now remains to be proved that the above method is bad from another
point of view.

I suppose I need not fear contradiction when I assert that, in
order that a braising may be good, its sauce should be short and
correspondingly substantial; also that the sauce obtained from a piece
of meat moistened with a quart of liquid cannot be so good as that
resulting from the moistening of a pint only.

It is more particularly on this account that I advise a braising
utensil which can only just hold the meat, for since, in the first
stage, the meat is only moistened with the braising-liquor, the
smaller the receptacle may be the less liquor will it require, and the
latter will in consequence be the tastier. Hence, if bones be added to
the braising, the utensil must necessarily be larger, and a greater
quantity of braising-liquor must be used. But this liquor will not
be nearly so savoury as that obtained from the process I recommend;
in fact, it will be but a rather strong broth, quite unfit for the
impregnation of the meat, and the final result will be a tasteless lump
of fibre instead of a succulent braising.

I must apologise to the reader for my insistence with regard to these
questions, but their importance is such that success is beyond reach in
the matter of brown sauces and braisings unless the above details have
been thoroughly grasped. Moreover, the explanations given will afford
considerable help in the understanding of operations which I shall give
later; therefore it is to be hoped that the examination of the theories
involved, however long this has been, will prove of use and assistance.


248—BRAISING OF WHITE MEATS

_The braising of white meats_ as it is now effected in modern cookery
is, strictly speaking, not braising at all, inasmuch as the cooking is
stopped at the close of the first of the two phases which I mentioned
when discussing brown braisings. True, old cookery did not understand
braising in the way that the modern school does, and under the ancient
régime large pieces, especially of veal, were frequently cooked until
they could almost be scooped with a spoon. This practice has been
generally, though mistakenly, eschewed, but its name survives.

White braisings are made with the neck, the saddle, the loin, the
fillets, the fricandeaus, and the sweet-bread of veal, young turkeys
and fat pullets, and sometimes, though less frequently, relevés of
lamb, hindquarters or saddle. The procedure is the same for all these
meats; the time of cooking alone varies in accordance with their size.
The aromatics are the same as those of the brown braisings, but the
frying of them is optional.

The moistening liquor is brown veal stock (Recipe 9).

_Mode of Procedure._—Except for the veal sweet-bread, which is always
blanched before being braised, the meats or poultry to be treated may
always be slightly stiffened and browned in butter, on all sides. This
is not essential in all cases, but I think that when they do undergo
something of the kind they dry less quickly. Now place them in a
utensil just large enough to hold them and deep enough to keep the lid
from touching them. Place the aromatics under them and moisten with a
little veal stock; set to boil on a moderate fire, and reduce the veal
stock with the lid on. When this stock has assumed the consistence of
a glaze, add a further similar quantity of fresh stock, and reduce as
before. The third time moisten the veal until it is half covered, and
push the pan into a moderate oven.

The meat needs constant basting while it cooks, in order to avoid its
drying; and, as the stock is very gelatinous, it forms a coating on
the surface which resists the evaporation of the contained juices; for
these, being insufficiently constrained by the slight frying the meat
has undergone, tend to vaporise under the influence of the heat.

It is for this reason that the stock must be reduced to a glaze before
finally moistening. If the moistening were all done at once, the liquor
would not be sufficiently dense to form the coating mentioned above,
and the meat would consequently dry on being set to cook.

Braised white meat is known to be cooked when, after having deeply
pricked it with a braiding needle, it exudes an absolutely colourless
liquid. This liquid denotes that the piece is cooked to the centre, and
as a result thereof the blood has decomposed.

There lies the great difference between brown braisings and white-meat
braisings. The latter are practically roasts, and they should not be
made with any but young poultry or meats, very fat and tender, for
they cannot go beyond their correct time of cooking, which equals that
of roasts, without immediately losing all their quality. A quarter of
an hour too much in the cooking of a kernel of veal weighing about
six lbs. is enough to make the meat dry and unpalatable, and to
thoroughly spoil it, whereas a brown braising cannot be over-cooked,
provided it do not burn.

White braised meats are generally glazed, and this process is
especially recommended for larded pieces, which, though less common
nowadays than formerly, can still claim many votaries.


249—POACHINGS

However nonsensical it may sound, the best possible definition of
a poaching is a boiling that does not boil. The term _poach_ is
extended to all slow processes of cooking which involve the use of a
liquor, however small. Thus the term poach applies to the cooking in
_court-bouillon_ of large pieces of turbot and salmon, as well as to
fillets of sole cooked with a little fish _fumet_, to hot _mousselines_
and _mousses_, cooked in moulds, to quenelles which are cooked in
salted water, to eggs announced as “poached,” to creams, various
royales, &c. It will readily be seen that among so many different
products, the time allowed for the cooking in each case must differ
sometimes widely from the rest. The treatment of them all, however, is
subject to this unalterable principle, namely, that the poaching liquor
must not boil, though it should reach a degree of heat as approximate
as possible to boiling-point. Another principle is that large pieces
of fish or poultry be set to boil in cold liquor, after which the
latter is brought to the required temperature as rapidly as possible.
The case may be the same with fillets of sole, or poultry, which are
poached almost dry; but all other preparations whose mode of cooking
is poaching gain by being immersed in liquor which has reached the
required temperature beforehand.

Having regard to the multitudinous forms and kinds of products that
are poached, it would be somewhat difficult to state here the details
and peculiarities proper to each in the matter of poaching; I think,
therefore, I should do better to leave these details to the respective
recipes of each product, though it will now be necessary to disclose
the way of poaching poultry, if only with a view to thoroughly
acquainting the reader with the theory propounded above.

Properly prepare the piece of poultry to be poached, and truss it with
its legs folded back alongside of the breast.

If it is to be stuffed, this should be done before trussing.

If it is to be larded or studded, either with truffles, ham, or tongue,
rub it when trussed on the fillets and legs with half a lemon, and dip
the same portions of its body (namely, those to be larded or studded)
for a few moments in boiling white stock. The object of this operation
is to slightly stiffen the skin, thus facilitating the larding or
studding.

_The Cooking of the Piece of Poultry._—Having stuffed, larded, or
studded it, if necessary, and having, in any case, trussed it, place
it in a receptacle just large enough to hold it, and moisten with some
excellent white stock previously prepared.

Set to boil, skim, put the lid on, and continue the cooking at a low
simmer. It is useless to work too quickly, as the operation would not
be shortened a second by so doing. The only results would be:—

1. Too violent evaporation, which would reduce the liquor and disturb
its limpidness.

2. The running of a considerable risk of bursting the piece of poultry,
especially when the latter is stuffed.

The fowl, or whatever it may be, is known to be cooked when, after
pricking the thick of the leg close to the “drumstick,” the issuing
liquid is white.

_Remarks._—(_a_) The need of poaching poultry in a receptacle just
large enough to hold the piece is accounted for as follows: (1) The
piece must be wholly immersed in the stock during the cooking process.
(2) As the liquor used is afterwards served as an accompanying sauce
to the dish, the less there is of it the more saturated does it become
with the juices of the meat, and, consequently, the better it is.

(_b_) (1) The white stock used in poaching should be prepared
beforehand, and be very clear.

(2) If the piece of poultry were set to cook with the products
constituting the stock, even if these were more than liberally
apportioned, the result would be bad, for inasmuch as a fowl, for
example, can only take one and one-half hours, at the most, to cook,
and the time required for extracting the nutritious and aromatic
principles from the constituents of the stock would be at least six
hours, it follows that the fowl would be cooking in little more than
hot water, and the resulting sauce would be quite devoid of savour.


250—POËLINGS

Poëlings are, practically speaking, roasts, for the cooking periods
of each are the same, except that the former are cooked entirely or
almost entirely with butter. They represent a simplified process of old
cookery, which consisted in enveloping the object to be treated, after
frying it, in a thick coating of _Matignon_. It was then wrapped with
thin slices of pork fat, covered with buttered paper, placed in the
oven or on a spit, and basted with melted butter while it cooked. This
done, its grease was drained away, and the vegetables of the _matignon_
were inserted in the braising-pan wherein the piece had cooked, or in a
saucepan, and were moistened with excellent Madeira or highly seasoned
stock. Then, when the liquor had thoroughly absorbed the aroma of the
vegetables, it was strained, and its grease was removed just before
dishing up. This excellent method is worthy of continued use in the
case of large pieces of poultry.

_Preparation of Poëled Meats._—Place in the bottom of a deep and thick
receptacle, just large enough to hold the piece to be poëled, a layer
of raw _matignon_ (Recipe 227). The meat or piece of poultry is placed
on the vegetables after it has been well seasoned, and is copiously
sprinkled with melted butter; cover the utensil, and push it into an
oven whose heat is not too fierce. Set it to cook gently in this way,
after the manner of a stew, and frequently sprinkle with melted butter.

When the meats or the pieces of poultry are cooked, the utensil is
uncovered so that the former may acquire a fine colour; then they
are transferred to a dish which should be kept covered until taken
to the table. Now add to the vegetables (which must not be burned) a
sufficient quantity of brown veal stock (Recipe 9), transparent and highly
seasoned; set the whole to boil gently for ten minutes, strain through
a serviette, carefully remove all grease from the poëling stock and
send it to the table in a sauceboat at the same time as the meat or
poultry, which, by the bye, is generally garnished.

_Remarks on Poëlings._—It is of paramount importance that these be not
moistened during the process of cooking, for in that case their savour
would be the same as that of braised white meats.

Nevertheless, an exception may be made in the case of such feathered
game as pheasants, partridges, and quails, to which is added, when
nearly cooked, a small quantity of burnt brandy.

It is also very important that the vegetables should not have their
grease removed before their moistening stock is added to them. The
butter used in the cooking absorbs a large proportion of the savour of
both the vegetables and the meat under treatment, and, to make good
this loss, it is essential that the moistening stock remain at least
ten minutes in contact with the butter. At the end of this time it may
be removed without in the least impairing the aroma of the stock.

_Special Poëlings known as “En Casserole,” or “En Cocotte.”_—The
preparations of butcher’s meats, of poultry, or game, known as “en
casserole” or “en cocotte,” are actual poëlings cooked in special
earthenware utensils and served in the same. Generally, preparations
known as “en casserole” are simply cooked in butter, without the
addition of vegetables.

When the cooking is done, the piece under treatment is withdrawn for
a moment, and some excellent brown veal stock (Recipe 9) is poured into
the utensil. This is left to simmer for a few minutes; the superfluous
butter is then removed; the piece is returned to the earthenware
utensil, and it is kept hot, without being allowed to boil, until it is
dished up.

For preparations termed “en cocotte,” the procedure is the same, except
that the piece is garnished with such vegetables as mushrooms, the
bottoms of artichokes, small onions, carrots, turnips, &c., which are
either turned or regularly pared, and half cooked in butter before
being used.

One should endeavour to use only fresh vegetables, and these should be
added to the piece constituting the dish in such wise as to complete
their cooking with it.

The earthenware utensils used for this purpose improve with use,
provided they be cleaned with clean, fresh water, without any soda or
soap. If new utensils have to be used, these should be filled with
water, which is set to boil, and they should then undergo at least
twelve hours’ soaking. For the prescribed time this water should be
kept gently boiling, and then the utensil should be well wiped and
soaked anew, in fresh water, before being used.


251—THE SAUTÉS

What characterises the process we call “sauté” is that the object
treated is cooked _dry_—that is to say, solely by means of a fatty
substance such as butter, oil, or grease.

Sautés are made with cut-up fowl or game, or with butcher’s meat
suitably divided up for the purpose.

All products treated in this way must be frizzled—that is to say, they
must be put into the fat when it is very hot in order that a hardened
coating may form around them which will keep their juices within. This
is more particularly desirable for red meats such as beef and mutton.

The cooking of _fowl sautés_ must, after the meats have been frizzled,
be completed on the stove or, with lid off, in the oven, where they
should be basted with butter after the manner of a roast.

The pieces are withdrawn from the utensil with a view to swilling the
latter, after which, if they be put back into the sauce or accompanying
garnish, they should only remain therein a few moments or just
sufficiently long to become properly warm.

The procedure is the same for _game sautés_.

_Sautés of butcher’s meats_ (red meats), such as tournedos, kernels,
cutlets, fillets, and noisettes, are always effected on the stove; the
meats are frizzled and cooked with a small quantity of clarified butter.

The thinner and smaller they are, the more rapidly should the frizzling
process be effected.

When blood appears on the surface of their raw side, they should be
turned over; when drops of blood begin to bedew their other side, they
are known to be cooked.

The swilling of the utensil obtains in all sautés. After having
withdrawn the treated product from the saucepan, remove the grease
and pour the condimentary liquid (a wine), that forms part of the
accompanying sauce, into the saucepan.

Set to boil, so that the solidified gravy lying on the bottom may
dissolve, and add the sauce; or simply add the swilling liquid to the
prepared sauce or accompanying garnish of the sauté. The utensil used
must always be just large enough to hold the objects to be treated. If
it be too large, the parts left uncovered by the treated meats burn,
and swilling is then impossible, whence there results a loss of the
solidified gravy which is an important constituent in the sauce.

_Sautés of white, butcher’s meats_, such as veal and lamb, must also be
frizzled in hot fat, but their cooking must be completed gently on the
side of the fire, and in many cases with lid on.

Preparations of a mixed nature, which partly resemble sautés and partly
braisings, are also called sautés. Stews, however, is their most
suitable name.

These dishes are made from beef, veal, lamb, game, &c., and they are to
be found in Part II. under the headings Estouffade; Goulash; Sautés:
Chasseur, Marengo, Bourgeoise; Navarin; Civet; &c.

In the first stage of their preparation, the meats are cut up small and
fried like those of the sautés; in the second, slow cooking with sauce
or garnish makes them akin to braised meats.


=3. Roasts, Grills, Fryings.=

=Roasts.=

Of the two usual methods of roasting, the spit will always be used in
preference to the oven, if only on account of the conditions under
which the operation is effected, and whatever be the kind of fuel
used—wood, coal, or gas.

The reason of this preference is clear if it be remembered that, in
spite of every possible precaution during the progress of an oven
roast, it is impossible to avoid an accumulation of vapour around the
cooking object in a closed oven. And this steam is more particularly
objectionable inasmuch as it is excessive in the case of delicately
flavoured meats, which latter are almost if not entirely impaired
thereby.

The spitted roast, on the contrary, cooks in the open in a dry
atmosphere, and by this means retains its own peculiar flavour. Hence
the unquestionable superiority of spitted roasts over the oven kind,
especially in respect of small feathered game.

In certain circumstances and places there is no choice of means, and,
_nolens volens_, the oven has to be used; but, in this case at least,
all possible precautions should be observed in order to counteract the
effects of the steam above mentioned.


252—LARDING BACON FOR ROASTS

Poultry and game to be roasted ought generally to be partly covered
with a large thin slice of larding bacon, except those pieces of game
which in special cases are larded.

The object and use of these slices are not only to shield the fillets
of fowl and game from the severe heat of the fires but also to prevent
these from drying while the legs, which the heat takes much longer to
penetrate than the other parts, are cooking. The slices of bacon should
therefore completely cover the breasts of fowl and game, and they
should be tied on to the latter by means of string.

In some cases roasts of butcher’s meat are covered with layers of
veal- or beef-fat, the object of which is similar to that of the bacon
prescribed above.


253—SPITTED ROASTS

The whole theory of roasts on the spit might be condensed as follows:—

In the case of butcher’s meat, calculate the intensity of the heat used
according to the piece to be roasted, the latter’s size and quality,
and the time it has hung. Experience, however, is the best guide,
for any theory, whatever be its exactness, can only give the leading
principles and general rules, and cannot pretend to supply the place of
the practised eye and the accuracy which are the result of experience
alone.

Nevertheless, I do not say with Brillat Savarin that a roaster is born
and not made; I merely state that one may become a good roaster with
application, observation, care, and a little aptitude.

The three following rules will be found to cover all the necessary
directions for spitted roasts:—

1. All red meats containing a large quantity of juice should be
properly set, and then, according to their size, made to undergo the
action of a fire capable of radiating a very penetrating heat with
little or no flame.

2. In the case of white meats, whose cooking should be thorough, the
fire ought to be so regulated as to allow the roast to cook and colour
simultaneously.

3. With small game the fuel should be wood, but whatever fuel be used
the fire ought to be made up in suchwise as to produce more flame than
glowing embers.


254—OVEN ROASTS

The degree of heat used for each roast must be regulated according to
the nature and size of the latter after the manner of spitted roasts.

An oven roast, in the first place, should always be placed on a
meatstand, and this should be of such a height that at no given moment
during the cooking process the meat may come in contact with the juices
and fat which have drained from it into the utensil beneath. Failing a
proper stand, a spit resting upon the edges of the utensil may be used.

No liquid of any kind, gravy or water, need be put in the baking-pan.
The addition of any liquid is rather prejudicial than otherwise, since
by producing vapour which hangs over the roast it transforms the latter
into a stew.

_Remarks._—Whether spitted or in the oven, a roast must always be
frequently basted with a fatty substance, but never with any other
liquid.


255—THE GRAVY OF ROASTS

The real and most natural gravy for roasts is made from the swilling
of the baking- or dripping-pan, even if water be used as the diluent,
since the contents of these utensils represent a portion of the
essential principles of the roast fallen from it in the process of
cooking. But to obtain this result neither the utensils nor the gravy
ought to have burned; the latter should merely have solidified, and for
this reason a roast cooked in a very fierce oven ought to be laid on a
pan only just large enough to hold it, so that the fat may not burn.

The swilling can in any case only produce a very small quantity of
gravy, consequently, when it happens that a greater quantity is
required, the need is met beforehand by preparing a stock made from
bones and trimmings of a similar nature to the roast for which the
gravy is required. The procedure for this is as follows:—

Place the bones and trimmings in a pan with a little fat and literally
roast them. Then transfer them to a saucepan, moisten so as to cover
with tepid, slightly-salted water, and add thereto the swillings of the
pan wherein they were roasted. Boil, skim, and set to cook gently for
three or four hours, according to the nature of the products used. This
done, almost entirely remove the grease, strain through muslin, and put
aside for the purpose of swilling the dripping- or baking-pan of the
roast.

_Swilling._—Having removed the roast from the spit or oven, take off a
portion of the grease from the baking- or dripping-pan, and pour into
it the required quantity of prepared gravy. Reduce the whole by half,
strain through muslin, and almost entirely remove grease.

It is a mistake to remove all the grease from, and to clarify, the
gravy of roasts. Treated thus they are certainly clearer and more
sightly, but a large proportion of their savour is lost, and it should
be borne in mind that the gravy of a roast is not a consommé.

In the matter of roast feathered game, the accompanying gravy is
supplied by the swilling of the utensil, either with water or a small
quantity of brandy. This is a certain means of obtaining a gravy whose
savour is precisely that of the game; but occasionally veal gravy is
used, as its flavour is neutral, and it therefore cannot impair the
particular flavour of the reduced game gravy lying on the bottom of the
utensil. The use of stock prepared from the bones and trimmings of game
similar to that constituting the dish is also common.


256—THE DRESSING AND ACCOMPANIMENTS OF ROASTS

As a rule, a roast ought not to wait. It ought only to leave the spit
or oven in order to be served. All roasts should be placed on very
hot dishes, slightly besprinkled with fresh butter, and surrounded
by bunches of watercress (this is optional). The gravy is invariably
served separately.

Roasts of butcher’s meat and poultry are dished up as simply as
possible.

Small roasted game may be dished up on fried slices of bread-crumb
masked with _gratin_ stuffing (Recipe 202).

When lemons accompany a roast, they should be served separately. Pieces
of lemon that have once served to garnish a dish must not be used, for
they have mostly been tainted by grease.

The mediæval custom of dishing game with the plumage has been abandoned.

Roast feathered game à l’anglaise is dished up with or without potato
chips, and the three adjuncts are gravy, bread-crumbs, and bread-sauce.

In northern countries game roasts are always accompanied either by
slightly sugared stewed apples, or by cherry or apricot jam.


257—GRILLS

Those culinary preparations effected by means of grilling belong to
the order called cooking by concentration. And, indeed, in almost
all cases, the great object of these operations, I might even say the
greatest object, is the concentration, in the centre, of the juices and
essences which represent, most essentially, the nutritive principles of
the products cooked.

A grill, which is, in short, but a roast on an open fire, stands, in my
opinion, as the remote starting-point, the very genesis of our art.

It was the primæval notion of our forefathers’ infantile brains; it was
progress born of an instinctive desire to eat with greater pleasure;
and it was the first culinary method ever employed.

A little later, and following naturally, as it were, upon this first
attempt, the spit was born of the grill; gradually, intelligence
supplanted rude instinct; reason began to deduce effects from supposed
causes; and thus cooking was launched forth upon that highroad along
which it has not yet ceased steadily to advance.

_Fuel for Grills._—That mostly used, and certainly the best for the
purpose, is live coal or small pieces of charcoal. Whatever fuel be
used, however, it is essential that it produce no smoke, even though
the grill fire be ventilated by powerful blowers which draw the smoke
off. More especially is this necessary, though I admit the contingency
is rare, when artificial ventilation has to be effected owing to
the fire’s burning in the open without the usual help of systematic
draughts; for if smoke occasioned by foreign substances or by the
falling of the fat itself on to the glowing embers were not immediately
carried away, either artificially or by a convenient draught, the
grills would most surely acquire a very disagreeable taste therefrom.

_The Bed of Charcoal._—The arrangement of the bed of charcoal under
the grill is of some importance, and it must not only be regulated
according to the size and kind of the products to be grilled, but also
in such wise as to allow of the production of more or less heat under
given circumstances.

The bed should therefore be set in equal layers in the centre, but
varying in thickness according as to whether the fire has to be more or
less fierce; it should also be slightly raised on those sides which are
in contact with the air, in order that the whole burning surface may
radiate equal degrees of heat.

The grill must always be placed over the glowing fuel in advance, and
it should be very hot when the objects to be grilled are placed upon
it, otherwise they would stick to the bars, and would probably be
spoiled when turned.


=Grills Classified.=

Grills may be divided into four classes, of which each demands
particular care. They are: (1) Red-meat grills (beef and mutton);
(2) White-meat grills (veal, lamb, poultry); (3) Fish; (4) Grills
coated with butter and bread-crumbs.


258—RED MEAT GRILLS

I submit as a principle that the golden rule in grills is to strictly
observe the correct degree of heat which is proper to each treated
object, never forgetting that the larger and richer in nutrition the
piece of meat, the quicker and more thorough must be its initial
setting.

I have already explained, under braisings, the part played by, and the
use of, rissoling or setting; but it is necessary to revert to this
question and its bearing upon grills.

If large pieces of meat (beef or mutton) are in question, the better
their quality and the richer they are in juices, the more resisting
must be the rissoled coating they receive. The pressure of the
contained juices upon the rissoled coating of this meat will be
proportionately great or small according to whether the latter be rich
or poor, and this pressure will gradually increase with the waxing heat.

If the grill fire be so regulated as to ensure the progressive
penetration of heat into the cooking object, this is what happens:—

The heat, striking that surface of the meat which is in direct
communication with the fire, penetrates the tissues, and spreads
stratiformly through the body, driving the latter’s juices in front of
it. When these reach the opposite, rissoled, or set side of the meat,
they are checked, and thereupon, absorbing the incoming heat, effect
the cooking of the inner parts.

Of course, if the piece of meat under treatment is very thick, the
fierceness of the fire should be proportionately abated the moment the
initial process of rissoling or setting of the meat’s surface has been
effected, the object being to allow the heat to penetrate the cooking
body more regularly. If the fierceness of the fire were maintained, the
rissoled coating on the meat would probably char, and the resulting
thickness of carbon would so successfully resist the passage of any
heat into the interior that, in the end, while the meat would probably
be found to be completely burnt on the outside, the inside would be
quite raw.

If somewhat thinner pieces are in question, a quick rissoling of their
surfaces over a fierce fire, and a few minutes of subsequent cooking,
will be all they need. No alteration in the intensity of the fire need
be sought in this case.

_Examples._—A rumpsteak or Châteaubriand, in order to be properly
cooked, should first have its outsides rissoled on a very fierce fire
with a view to preserving its juices, after which cooking may proceed
over a moderate fire so as to allow of the gradual penetration of the
heat into the centre of the body.

Small pieces such as tournedos, small fillets, noisettes, chops, may,
after the preliminary process of outside rissoling, be cooked over the
same degree of heat as effected the latter, because the thickness of
meat to be penetrated is less.

_The Care of Grills while Cooking._—Before placing the meats on the
grill, baste them slightly with clarified butter, and repeat this
operation frequently during the cooking process, so as to avoid the
possible drying of the rissoled surfaces.

Grilled red meat should always be turned by means of special tongs, and
great care should be observed that its surface be not torn or pierced,
lest the object of the preliminary precautions be defeated, and the
contained juices escape.

_Time of Cooking._—This, in the case of red meats, is arrived at by the
following test: if, on touching the meat with one’s finger, the former
resist any pressure, it is sufficiently cooked: if it give, it is clear
that in the centre, at least, the reverse is the case. The most certain
sign, however, that cooking has been completed is the appearance of
little beads of blood upon the rissoled surface of the meat.


259—WHITE-MEAT GRILLS

That superficial rissoling which is so necessary in the case of red
meats is not at all so in the case of white, for in the latter there
can be no question of the concentration of juices, since these are only
present in the form of albumen—that is to say, in the form of juices
“in the making,” so to speak, which is peculiar to veal and lamb.

For this kind of grills keep a moderate fire, so that the cooking and
colouring of the meat may take place simultaneously.

White-meat grills should be fairly often basted by means of a brush,
with clarified butter, while cooking, lest their outsides dry.

They are known to be cooked when the juice issuing from them is quite
white.


260—FISH GRILLS

Use a moderate fire with these, and only grill after having copiously
sprinkled them with clarified butter or oil. Sprinkle them similarly
while cooking.

A grilled fish is cooked when the bones are easily separated from the
meat. Except for the fatty kind, such as mackerel, red mullet, or
herrings, always roll fish to be grilled in flour before sprinkling
them with melted butter. The object of so doing is to give them a
golden external crust, which, besides making them more sightly, keeps
them from drying.


261—THE GRILLING OF PRODUCTS COATED WITH BUTTER AND BREAD-CRUMBS

These grills generally consist of only small objects; they must be
effected on a very moderate fire, with the view of enabling them to
cook and acquire colour simultaneously. They should also be frequently
besprinkled with clarified butter, and turned with care, so as not to
break their coating, the object of which is to withhold their contained
juices.


262—FRYINGS

Frying is one of the principal cooking processes, for the number of
preparations that are accomplished by its means is very considerable.
Its procedure is governed by stringent laws and rules which it is best
not to break, lest the double danger of failure and impairment of
material be incurred.

The former is easily averted if one is familiar with the process,
and pays proper attention to it, while the latter is obviated by
precautions which have every _raison d’être_, and the neglect of which
only leads to trouble.

The question of the kind of utensil to employ is not so immaterial
as some would think, for very often accidents result from the mere
disregard of the importance of this matter.

Very often imprudence and bluster on the part of the operator may be
the cause of imperfections, the greatest care being needed in the
handling of utensils containing overheated fat.

Utensils used in frying should be made of copper, or other resisting
metal; they should be in one piece, oval or round in shape, and
sufficiently large and deep to allow, while only half-filled with fat,
of the objects being properly affected by the latter. The necessity of
this condition is obvious, seeing that if the utensil contain too much
fat the slightest jerking of it on the stove would spill some of the
liquid, and the operator would probably be badly burnt.

Finally, utensils with vertical sides are preferable to those with the
slanting kind; more especially is this so in large kitchens where, the
work involving much frying, capacious receptacles are required.


263—FRYING FAT—ITS PREPARATION

Any animal or vegetable grease is suitable for frying, provided it be
quite pure and possess a resisting force allowing it to reach a very
high temperature without burning. But for frying on a large scale, the
use of cooked and clarified fats, such as the fat of “pot-au-feu” and
roasts, should be avoided.

A frying medium is only perfect when it is able to meet the demands of
a protracted operation, and consists of fresh or raw fats, chosen with
care and thoroughly purified by cooking.

Under no circumstances may butter be used for frying on a large
scale, seeing that, even when thoroughly purified, it can only reach
a comparatively low degree of heat. It may be used only for _small,
occasional fryings_.

The fat of kidney of beef generally forms the base of the grease
intended for frying on a large scale. It is preferable to all others on
account of its cheapness and the great length of time it can be worked,
provided it receives the proper care.

Veal-fat yields a finer frying medium, but its resistance is small, and
it must, moreover, always be strengthened with the fat of beef.

Mutton-fat should be deliberately discarded, for, if it happen to be
that of an old beast, it smells of tallow, and, if it be that of a
young one, it causes the hot grease to foam and to overflow down the
sides of the utensil, this leading to serious accidents.

Pork-fat is also used for frying, either alone, or combined with some
other kind.

In brief, the fat of kidney of beef is that which is best suited
to fryings on a large scale. Ordinary household frying, which does
not demand a very resisting grease, may well be effected by means
of the above, combined with an equal quantity of veal-fat, or a
mixture composed of the fat of kidney of beef, veal, and pork in the
proportions of one-half, one-quarter, and one-quarter respectively.

The grease used for frying ought not only to be melted down, but also
thoroughly cooked, so that it may be quite pure. If insufficiently
cooked, it foams on first being used, and so demands all kinds of extra
precautions, which only cease to be necessary when constant heating
at last rectifies it. Moreover, if it be not quite pure, it easily
penetrates immersed solids and makes them indigestible.

All grease used in frying should first be cut into pieces and then put
into the saucepan with one pint of water per every ten lbs.

The object of the water is to assist in the melting, and this it does
by filtering into the grease, vaporising, and thereby causing the
latter to swell. So long as the water has not completely evaporated,
the grease only undergoes the action of liquefaction, _i.e._, the
dissolution of its molecules; but its thorough cooking process, ending
with its purification, only begins when all the water is gone.

The grease is cooked when (1) the membranes which enveloped it alone
remain intact and are converted into greaves; (2) it gives off smoke
which has a distinct smell.

At this stage it has reached such a high temperature that it is best
to remove it from the fire for about ten minutes, so that it may cool;
then it must be strained through a sieve, or a coarse towel, which must
be tightly twisted.


264—THE VARIOUS DEGREES OF HEAT REACHED BY THE FRYING MEDIUM, AND THEIR
APPLICATION

The temperature reached by a frying medium depends upon the latter’s
constituents and its purity. The various degrees may be classified as
moderately hot, hot, very hot.

The expression “boiling hot” is unsuitable, seeing that fat never
boils. Butter (an occasional frying medium) cannot overreach 248° F.
without burning, whereas if it be thoroughly purified it can attain
from 269° to 275° F.—a temperature which is clearly below what would be
needed for work on a large scale.

Animal greases used in ordinary frying reach from 275° to 284° F. when
moderately hot, 320° F. when hot, and 356° F. when very hot; in the
last case they smoke slightly.

Pork-fat (lard), when used alone, reaches 392° F. without burning. Very
pure goose dripping withstands 428° F.; and, finally, vegetable fats
may reach, without burning, 482° F. in the case of cocoa-nut butter,
518° F. with ordinary oils, and 554° in the case of olive oil.

The temperature of ordinary frying fat may be tested thus: it is
moderately hot when, after throwing a sprig of parsley or a crust
of bread into it, it begins to bubble immediately; it is hot if it
crackles when a slightly moist object is thrust into it; it is very hot
when it gives off a thin white smoke perceptible to the smell.

The first temperature, “moderately hot,” is used (1) for all products
containing vegetable water the complete evaporation of which is
necessary; (2) for fish whose volume exacts a cooking process by means
of penetration, previous to that with concentration.

In the first degree of heat with which it is used the frying fat
therefore only effects a kind of preparatory operation.

The second temperature, “hot,” is used for all products which
have previously undergone an initial cooking process in the first
temperature, either for evaporation or penetration, and its object is
either to finish them or to cover them with a crimped coating.

It is also applicable to those products upon which the frying fat
must act immediately by concentration—that is to say, by forming a
set coating around them which prevents the escape of the contained
substances.

Objects treated with this temperature are: all those _panés à
l’anglaise_ or covered with batter, such as various _croquettes_,
_cromesquis_, cutlets, and collops à la Villeroy, fritters of all
kinds, fried creams, &c.

In this case the frying medium acts by setting, which in certain cases
is exceedingly necessary.

1. If the objects in question are _panés à l’anglaise_, _i.e._, dipped
in beaten eggs and rolled in bread-crumbs, the sudden contact of
the hot grease converts this coating of egg and bread-crumbs into a
resisting crust, which prevents the escape of the substances and the
liquefied sauce contained within.

If these objects were plunged in a fat that was not sufficiently hot,
the coating of egg and bread-crumbs would not only imbibe the frying
medium, but it would run the risk of breaking, thereby allowing the
escape of the very substances it was intended to withhold.

2. The same holds with objects treated with batter. Hence the absolute
necessity of ensuring that setting which means that the covering of
batter solidifies immediately. As the substances constituting these
various dishes are cooked in advance, it follows that their second
heating and the colouring of the coating (egg and bread-crumbs or
batter) take place at the same time and in a few minutes.

The third temperature, “very hot,” is used (1) for all objects that
need a sharp and firm setting; (2) for all small objects the setting of
which is of supreme importance, and whose cooking is effected in a few
minutes, as in the case of whitebait.


265—FRYING MEDIUM FOR FISH

Every frying medium, used for work on a large scale, which has acquired
a too decided colouring through repeated use, may serve in the
preparation of fish even until its whole strength is exhausted.

Oil is best suited to the frying of fish, especially the very small
kind, owing to the tremendous heat it can withstand without burning,
for this heat guarantees that setting which is so indispensable.

Except in this case, however, the temperature of the frying medium
should be regulated strictly in accordance with the size of the fish
to be fried, in order that its cooking and colouring may be effected
simultaneously.

Except _Nonats_ and whitebait, which are simply rolled in flour, fish
to be fried are previously steeped in slightly salted milk and then
rolled in flour. From this combination of milk and flour there results
a crisp coating which withholds those particular principles that the
fish exude while cooking.

When finished, fried fish are drained, dried, slightly salted,
and dished on a serviette or on paper, with a garnish of fried
parsley-sprays and sections of channelled lemon.


266—THE QUANTITY OF THE FRYING MEDIUM

This should always be in proportion to the quantity or size of the
objects to be fried, bearing in mind that these must always be entirely
submerged.

Without necessarily exaggerating, the quantity should invariably be
rather in excess of the requirements, and for this reason, viz., the
greater the amount of fat, the higher will be the temperature reached,
and the less need one fear a sudden cooling of the fat when the objects
to be treated are immersed. This sudden cooling is often the cause of
great trouble, unless one be working over a fire of such fierceness
that the fat can return in a few seconds to the temperature it was at
before the objects were immersed.


267—THE CARE OF THE FRYING MEDIUM

Every time a frying fat is used it should, after having been melted,
be strained through a towel, for the majority of objects which it has
served to cook must have left some particles behind them which might
prove prejudicial to the objects that are to follow.

Objects that are “_panés_” always leave some raspings, for instance,
which in time assume the form of black powder, while those that have
been treated with flour likewise drop some of their coating, which, in
accumulating, produces a muddy precipitate on the bottom of the utensil.

Not only do these foreign substances disturb the clearness of the fat
and render it liable to burn, but they are exceedingly detrimental to
the objects that are treated later.

Therefore, always strain the fat whenever it is used—in the first place
because the proper treatment of the objects demands it, and, secondly,
because its very existence as a serviceable medium depends upon this
measure.


268—GRATINS

This culinary operation plays a sufficiently important part in the work
to warrant my detailing at least its leading points.

The various kinds of the order “Gratins” are (1) the Complete Gratin;
(2) the Rapid Gratin; (3) the Light Gratin; (4) Glazing, which is a
form of Rapid Gratin.


269—COMPLETE GRATIN

This is the first example of the series; it is that whose preparation
is longest and most tiresome; for its principal constituent, whatever
this is, must be completely cooked. Its cooking must moreover be
coincident with the reduction of the sauce, which is the base of the
gratin, and with the formation of the gratin proper, _i.e._, the
crimped crust which forms on the surface and is the result of the
combination of the sauce with the raspings and the butter, under the
direct influence of the heat.

In the preparation of complete gratin, two things must be taken into
account:—(1) The nature and size of the object to be treated, and
(2) the degree of heat which must be used in order that the cooking of
the object, the reduction of the sauce, and the formation of the gratin
may be effected simultaneously.

The base of complete gratin is almost invariably ordinary or Lenten
duxelle sauce (Recipe 223), in accordance with the requirements.

The object to be treated with the gratin is laid on a buttered
dish, surrounded with slices of raw mushrooms and chopped shallots,
and covered with duxelle sauce. The surface is then sprinkled with
raspings, and copiously moistened with melted butter. Should the piece
be large, the amount of sauce used will be proportionately greater, and
the reverse, of course, applies to medium or smaller sizes.

Take note of the following remarks in the making of complete gratins:—

1. If too much sauce were used in proportion to the size of the object,
the latter would cook and the gratin form before the sauce could reach
the correct degree of consistence by means of reduction. Hence it
would be necessary to reduce the sauce still further on the stove, and
thereby give rise to steam which would soften the coating of the gratin.

2. If the sauce used were insufficient, it would be reduced before the
cooking of the object had been effected, and, more sauce having to be
added, the resulting gratin would be uneven.

3. The larger the piece, and consequently the longer it takes to cook,
the more moderate should be the heat used. Conversely, the smaller it
is, the fiercer should the fire be.

When withdrawing the gratin from the oven squeeze a few drops of
lemon-juice over it, and besprinkle it with chopped parsley.


270—RAPID GRATIN

Proceed as above, with duxelle sauce, but the products treated with
it, viz., meats, fish, or vegetables, are always cooked and warmed in
advance. All that is required, therefore, is to effect the formation of
the gratin as quickly as possible.

To do this, cover the object under treatment with the necessary
quantity of salt, besprinkle with raspings and butter, and set the
gratin to form in a fierce oven.


271—LIGHT GRATIN

This is proper to farinaceous products, such as macaroni, lazagnes,
noodles, gnocchi, &c., and consists of a combination of grated cheese,
raspings, and butter. In this case, again, the only end in view is the
formation of the _gratin_ coating, which must be evenly coloured, and
is the result of the cheese melting. A moderate heat is all that is
wanted for this kind of _gratin_.

Also considered as light _gratins_ are those which serve as the
complement of stuffed vegetables such as tomatoes, mushrooms,
egg-plant, and cucumber. With these the _gratin_ is composed of
raspings sprinkled with butter or oil, and it is placed in a more or
less fierce heat according to whether the vegetables have already been
cooked or partially cooked, or are quite raw.


272—GLAZINGS

These are of two kinds—they either consist of a heavily buttered sauce,
or they form from a sprinkling of cheese upon the sauce with which the
object to be glazed is covered.

In the first case, after having poured sauce over the object to be
treated, place the dish on another dish containing a little water.
This is to prevent the sauce decomposing and boiling. The greater the
quantity of butter used, the more intense will be the heat required, in
order that a slight golden film may form almost instantaneously.

In the second case, the sauce used is always a Mornay (Recipe 91). Cover
the object under treatment with the sauce, besprinkle with grated
cheese and melted butter, and place in fairly intense heat, so that a
slight golden crust may form almost immediately, this crust being the
result of the combined cheese and butter.


273—BLANCHINGS

The essentially unsuitable term blanchings is applied in the culinary
technology of France to three classes of operations which entirely
differ one from the other in the end they have in view.

  1. The blanching of meats.

  2. The blanching, or, better, the parboiling of certain vegetables.

  3. The blanching of certain other vegetables, which in reality
     amounts to a process of cooking.

_The blanching of meats_ obtains mostly in the case of calf’s head and
foot and the sweet-bread of veal, sheep’s and lambs’ trotters, and
lamb’s sweet-bread. These meats are first set to soak in cold, running
water until they have quite got rid of the blood with which they are
naturally saturated. They are then placed on the fire in a saucepan
containing enough cold water to abundantly cover them, and the water is
gradually brought to the boil.

For calf’s head or feet, boiling may last for fifteen or twenty
minutes; veal sweet-bread must not boil for more than ten or twelve
minutes; while lamb sweet-bread is withdrawn the moment the boil is
reached.

As soon as blanched, the meats are cooled in plenty of fresh water
before undergoing their final treatment.

_The blanching of cocks’ combs_ is exceptional in this, namely, that
after the combs have been cleansed of blood—that is to say, soaked in
cold water, they are placed on the fire in cold water, the temperature
of which must be carefully kept below 113° F. When this degree is
approached, take the saucepan off the fire and rub each comb with a
cloth, dusted with table-salt, in order to remove the skins; then cool
the combs with fresh water before cooking them.

Many people use the blanching process with meats intended for
“blanquette” or “fricassée.” I regard this procedure as quite
erroneous, as also the preliminary soaking in cold water.

If the meats or pieces of poultry intended for the above-mentioned
preparations be of a good quality (and no others should be used), they
need only be set to cook in cold water, or cold stock, and gradually
brought to the boil, being stirred repeatedly the while. The scum
formed should be carefully removed, and, in this way, perfectly white
meats and stock, with all their savour, are obtained.

As to meats or pieces of poultry of an inferior quality, no soaking
and no blanching can make good their defects. Whichever way they are
treated they remain dry, gray, and savourless. It is therefore simpler
and better to use only the finest quality goods.

An excellent proof of the futility of soaking and blanching meats
intended for “fricassées” and “blanquettes” lies in the fact that
these very meats, if of good quality, are always perfectly white when
they are braised, poëled, or roasted, notwithstanding the fact that
these three operations are less calculated to preserve their whiteness
than the kind of treatment they are subjected to in the case of
“blanquettes” and “fricassées.”

Mere routine alone can account for this practice of soaking and
blanching meats—a practice that is absolutely condemned by common sense.

The term “blanching” is wrongly applied to the cooking of green
vegetables, such as French beans, green peas, Brussels sprouts,
spinach, &c. The cooking of these, which is effected by means of
boiling salted water, ought really to be termed “à l’anglaise.” All the
details of the procedure, however, will be given when I deal with the
vegetables to which the latter apply.

Lastly, under the name of “blanching,” there exists another operation
which consists in partly cooking certain vegetables in plenty of water,
in order to rid them of any bitter or pungent flavour they may possess.
The time allowed for this blanching varies according to the age of the
vegetables, but when the latter are young and in season, it amounts to
little more than a mere scalding.

Blanching is chiefly resorted to for lettuce, chicory, endives,
celery, artichokes, cabbages, and the green vegetables; carrots,
turnips, and small onions when they are out of season. In respect of
vegetable-marrows, cucumbers, and chow-chow, blanching is often left to
the definite cooking process, which should then come under the head of
the “à l’anglaise” cooking.

After the process of blanching, the vegetables I have just enumerated
are always cooled—that is to say, steeped in cold water until they are
barely lukewarm. They are then left to drain on a sieve, previous to
undergoing the final cooking process to which they are best suited,
this generally being braising.


=6. Vegetables and Garnishes=

_Various Preparations._


274—THE TREATMENT OF DRY VEGETABLES

It is wrong to soak dry vegetables. If they are of good quality, and
the produce of the year, they need only be put into a saucepan with
enough cold water to completely cover them, and with one oz. of salt
per five quarts of water.

Set to boil gently, skim, add the aromatic garnish, quartered carrots,
onions, with or without garlic cloves, and a faggot, and set to cook
gently with lid on.

_Remarks._—If the vegetables used are old or inferior in quality, they
might be put to soak in soft water; but this only long enough to swell
them slightly, _i.e._, about one and one-half hours.

A prolonged soaking of dry vegetables may give rise to incipient
germination, and this, by impairing the principles of the vegetables,
depreciates the value of the food, and may even cause some harm to the
consumer.


275—BRAISED VEGETABLES

Vegetables to be braised must be first blanched, cooled, pared, and
strung.

Garnish the bottom of a saucepan with blanched pork-rind, sliced
carrots and onions, and a faggot, and cover the sides of the utensil
with thin slices of bacon. Lay the vegetables upon the prepared litter,
and leave them to sweat in the oven for about ten minutes with lid on.
The object of this oven-sweating is to expel the water. Now moisten
enough to cover with white stock, and set to cook gently.

This done, drain, remove string, and cut to the shape required. Lay
them in a sautépan, and, if they are to be served soon, cover them with
their reduced stock from which the grease has been removed.

If they are prepared in advance, simply put them aside in suitable
basins, cover them with their cooking-liquor, which should be strained
over them, boiling, and without its grease removed, and cover with
buttered paper.


=Adjuncts to Braised Vegetables=

According to the case, the adjunct is either the braising-liquor,
reduced and with all grease removed, or the same completed by means of
an addition of meat-glaze.

Occasionally, it may be the braising-liquor slightly thickened with
half-glaze and finished with butter and the juice of a lemon.


276—LEASON OF GREEN VEGETABLES WITH BUTTER

First thoroughly drain the vegetables and toss them over the fire for a
few minutes, in order to completely rid them of their moisture. Season
according to the kind of vegetable; add the butter away from the fire,
and slightly toss, rolling the saucepan meanwhile on the stove with the
view of effecting the leason by means of the mixing of the butter with
the treated vegetables.


277—LEASON OF VEGETABLES WITH CREAM

Vegetables to be treated in this way must be kept somewhat firm. After
having thoroughly drained them, put them into a saucepan with enough
boiling fresh cream to well moisten without covering them.

Finish their cooking process in the cream, stirring occasionally the
while.

When the cream is almost entirely reduced, finish, away from the fire,
with a little butter.

The leason may be slightly stiffened, if necessary, by means of a few
tablespoonfuls of cream sauce.


278—VEGETABLE CREAMS AND PURÉES

Purées of dry and farinaceous vegetables may be obtained by rubbing the
latter through a sieve.

Put the purée into a sautépan, and dry it over a brisk fire, adding one
and one-half oz. of butter per pint of purée; then add milk or cream in
small quantities at a time, until the purée has reached the required
degree of consistence.

For purées of aqueous vegetables, such as French beans, cauliflowers,
celery, &c., a quarter of their volume of mashed potatoes should be
added to them in order to effect their leason.

In the case of vegetable creams, substitute for the thickening of
mashed potatoes an equivalent quantity of succulent and stiff Béchamel
sauce.


279—GARNISHES

In cookery, although garnishes only play a minor part, they are,
nevertheless, very important, for, besides being the principal
accompaniments to dishes, they are very often the adornment thereof,
while it frequently happens that their harmonious arrangement
considerably helps to throw the beauty of a fine joint or bird into
relief.

A garnish may consist of one or more products. Be this as it may, its
name, as a rule, distinctly denotes, in a word, what it is and how it
is made.

In any case, it should always bear some relation to the piece it
accompanies, either in the constituents of its preparation or with
regard to the size of the piece constituting the dish.

I merely add that, since the constituents of garnishes are strictly
denoted by the name the latter bear, any addition of products foreign
to their nature would be a grave mistake. Likewise, the omission of any
constituent is to be avoided, as the garnish would thereby be out of
keeping with its specified character.

Only in very exceptional circumstances should any change of this kind
be allowed to take place.

The constituents of garnishes are supplied by vegetables, farinaceous
products, quenelles of all kinds, cocks’ combs and kidneys, truffles
and mushrooms, plain or stuffed olives, molluscs (mussels or oysters),
shell-fish (crayfish, shrimps, lobster, &c.), butcher’s supplies, such
as lamb’s sweet-bread, calf’s brains, and calf’s spine-marrow.

As a rule, garnishes are independent of the dish itself—that is to say,
they are prepared entirely apart. At other times they are mixed with
it, playing the double part of garnish and condimentary principle, as
in the case of Matelotes, Compotes, Civets, &c.

Vegetables for garnishing are fashioned and treated in accordance with
the use and shape implied by the name of the dish, which should always
be the operator’s guide in this respect.

The farinaceous ones, the molluscs and shell-fish, undergo the
customary preparation.

I have already described (Chapter X.) the preparation of quenelles and
forcemeats for garnishing. Other recipes which have the same purpose
will be treated in their respective order.




PART II

RECIPES AND MODES OF PROCEDURE


In Part I. of this work I treated of the general principles on
which the science of cookery is founded, and the leading operations
constituting the basis of the work.

In Part II. I shall proceed from the general to the particular—in other
words, I shall set forth the recipes of every dish I touch upon, its
method of preparation, and its constituent parts.

With the view of making reference as easy as possible, without
departing from a certain logical order, I have adopted the method of
classifying these recipes in accordance with the position the dishes
they represent hold in the ordinary menu, and thus, starting with
the hors-d’œuvres, I go straight on to the dessert. I was compelled,
however, to alter my plan in the case of eggs, which never appear on
the menu of a dinner save in Lent.

These I have therefore placed immediately after the hors-d’œuvres,
which, like eggs, should only be served at luncheons, for reasons I
shall explain later.

It will be seen that I have placed the Savouries before the Entremets,
instead of after the Ices, as is customary in England. My reason for
this apparent anomaly is that I consider it a positive gastronomical
heresy to eat fish, meats, fowl-remains, &c., after delicate Entremets
and Ices, the subtle flavour of the latter, which form such an
agreeable item in a dinner, being quite destroyed by the violent
seasoning of the former.

Moreover, the very pretext brought forward in support of this practice,
so erroneous from the gastronomical standpoint, namely, “that after
a good dinner it is necessary to serve something strange and highly
seasoned, in order to whet the diner’s thirst,” is its own condemnation.

For, if appetite is satiated and thirst is quenched, it follows that
the consumer has taken all that is necessary. Therefore, anything more
that he may be stimulated to take will only amount to excess, and
excess in gastronomy, as in everything else, is a fault that can find
no excuse.

At all events, I could agree to no more than the placing of the
Savouries before mild Entremets, and, even so, the former would have
to consist of light, dry preparations, very moderately seasoned, such
as Paillettes with Parmesan, various kinds of dry biscuits, and small
tartlets garnished with cheese _soufflé_.

In short, if I expressed my plain opinion on the matter, I should
advise the total suppression of Savouries in a dinner.
