INCLUDED TEXT:

CHAPTER VI

=The Court-bouillons and the Marinades=


163—COURT-BOUILLON WITH VINEGAR

_Quantities Required for Five Quarts._

  5 quarts of water.
  ½ pint of vinegar.
  2 oz. of gray salt.
  ½ oz. of peppercorns.
  ¾ lb. of carrots.
  1 lb. of onions.
  A little thyme and bay.
  2 oz. of parsley stalks.

_Preparation._—Put into a saucepan the water, salt, and vinegar, the
minced carrots and onions, and the parsley, thyme, and bay, gathered
into a bunch. Boil, allow to simmer for one hour, rub through tammy,
and put aside until wanted.

_Remarks._—Put the peppercorns into the _court-bouillon_ only twelve
minutes before straining the latter. If the pepper were in for too long
a time it would give a bitterness to the preparation. This rule also
applies to the formulæ that follow, in which the use of peppercorns is
also required.

This _court-bouillon_ is principally used for cooking trout and salmon,
as well as for various shell-fish.


164—COURT-BOUILLON WITH WHITE WINE

_Quantities Required for Two Quarts._

  1 quart of white wine.
  1 quart of water.
  3 oz. of minced onions.
  1 large faggot.
  ½ oz. of gray salt.
  A few peppercorns.

_Preparation._—This is the same as for the _court-bouillon_ with
vinegar, except that it is boiled for half an hour and is strained
through tammy.

_Remarks._—If the _court-bouillon_ has to be reduced the quantity of
salt should be proportionately less. This preparation is principally
used for poaching fresh-water fish.


165—COURT-BOUILLON WITH RED WINE

Use the same quantities as for _court-bouillon_ with white wine, taking
care—

1. To replace white wine by excellent red wine.

2. To add four oz. of minced carrots.

3. To apportion the wine and water in the ratio of two-thirds
to one-third.

_Preparation._—The same as that of the former, with the same time for
boiling.

_Remarks._—If the _court-bouillon_ is to be reduced, the salt should
be less accordingly. When the _court-bouillon_ with red wine is to
constitute an aspic stock, fish _fumet_ with enough gelatine takes the
place of the water.

The uses of _court-bouillon_ with red wine are similar to those of the
white-wine kind.


166—PLAIN COURT-BOUILLON

The quantity of _court-bouillon_ is determined by the size of the
piece which it is to cover. It is composed of cold, salt water (the
salt amounting to a little less than one-half oz. per quart of water),
one-quarter pint of milk per quart of water, and one thin slice of
peeled lemon in the same proportion. The fish is immersed while the
liquor is cold; the latter is very slowly brought to the boil, and as
soon as this is reached, the receptacle is moved to the side of the
fire, where the cooking of the fish is completed.

This _court-bouillon_, which is used with large pieces of turbot and
brill, is never prepared beforehand.


167—SPECIAL COURT-BOUILLON, OR BLANC

This preparation is a genuine _court-bouillon_, though it is not used
in cooking fish.

_The Quantities Required for Five Quarts of this Court-bouillon are_:—

  A little less than 2 oz. of flour.
  1½ oz. of grey salt.
  The juice of 3 lemons or ⅛ pint of good vinegar.
  5 quarts of cold water.

Gradually mix the flour and the water; add the salt and the lemon
juice, and pass through a strainer. Set to boil, and stir the mixture
the while, in order to prevent the flour from precipitating; as soon
as the boil is reached, immerse the objects to be treated. These are
usually calf’s head or foot, previously blanched; sheep’s trotters,
cocks’ kidneys or combs, or such vegetables as salsify, cardoon, &c.


=Remarks upon the Use of Court-bouillon.=

1. _Court-bouillon_ must always be prepared in advance for all fish,
the time for poaching which is less than half an hour, except turbots
and brills.

2. When a fish is of such a size as to need more than half an
hour’s poaching, proceed as follows:—Place under the drainer of the
fish-kettle the minced carrots and onions and the faggot; put the fish
on the drainer, and cover it with water and vinegar, or white wine, in
accordance with the kind of _court-bouillon_ wanted and the quantity
required. Add the salt, boil, and keep the _court-bouillon_ gently
simmering for a period of time fixed by the weight of the fish. The
time allowed for poaching the latter will be given in their respective
formulæ.

3. Fish, when whole, should be immersed in cold _court-bouillon_; when
sliced, in the same liquor, boiling. The exceptions to this rule are
small trout “au bleu” and shell-fish.

4. If fish be cooked in short liquor the aromatics are put under the
drainer and the liquid elements of the selected _court-bouillon_ (as,
for example, that with red or white wine) are so calculated as to cover
only one-third of the solid body. Fish cooked in this way should be
frequently basted.

5. _Court-bouillon_ for ordinary and spiny lobsters should always be at
full boiling pitch when these are immersed. The case is the same for
small or medium fish “au bleu.”

6. Fish which is to be served cold, also shell-fish, should cool in the
_court-bouillon_ itself; the cooking period is consequently curtailed.


=Marinades and Brines.=

_Marinades_ play but a small part in English cookery, venison or other
ground-game being generally preferred fresh. However, in the event of
its being necessary to resort to these methods of preparation, I shall
give two formulæ for venison and two for mutton.

The use of the _marinade_ for venison is very much debated. Certainly
it is often desirable that the fibre of those meats that come from old
specimens of the deer and boar species be softened, but there is no
doubt that what the meat gains in tenderness it loses in flavour. On
the whole, therefore, it would be best to use only those joints which
come from young beasts.

In the case of the latter, the _marinade_ may well be dispensed with.
It would add nothing to the savour of a haunch of venison, such as may
be got in England, while it would be equally ineffectual in the case
of the roebuck or hare. A summary treatment of these two, with raw
_marinade_, may well be adopted, as also for deer.

As for cooked _marinade_, its real and only use lies in the fact that
during stormy summer weather it enables one to preserve meat which
would otherwise have to be wasted. It may, moreover, be used for
braised venison, but this treatment of game is very uncommon nowadays.


168—COOKED MARINADE FOR VENISON

_Quantities Required for Five Quarts._

  ½ lb. of minced carrots.
  ½ lb. of minced onions.
  2 oz. of minced shallots.
  1 crushed garlic clove.
  1 faggot, including 1 oz. of parsley stalks, 2 sprigs of rosemary,
      as much thyme, and 2 bay leaves.

_Preparation._—Heat one-half pint of oil in a stewpan, add the carrots
and onions, and fry them while stirring frequently. When they begin to
brown add the shallots, the garlic, and the faggot, then one pint of
vinegar, two bottles of white wine, and three quarts of water. Cook
this _marinade_ for twenty minutes, and add a further two oz. of salt,
one-half oz. of peppercorns, and four oz. of brown sugar. Ten minutes
afterwards pass it through a strainer and let it cool before inserting
the meats.

N.B.—In summer the _marinade_ very often decomposes, because of the
blood contained by the meat under treatment in it. The only means of
averting this is to boil the _marinade_ every two or three days at
least.


169—RAW MARINADE FOR BUTCHER’S MEAT OR VENISON

This _marinade_ is prepared immediately before using. The meat to be
treated is first salted and peppered on all sides, then it is put in a
receptacle just large enough to hold it, and laid therein on a litter
of aromatics, including minced carrots and onions, a few chopped
shallots, parsley stalks, thyme, and bay in proportion to the rest. Now
sprinkle the meat copiously with oil and half as much vinegar; cover
the dish with oil-paper, and put it somewhere in the cool. Remember to
turn the meat over three or four times a day, covering it each time
with a layer of vegetables.

This _marinade_ is very active, and is admirably suited to all
butcher’s meat and venison, provided these be not allowed to remain in
it for too long a time. It is very difficult to say how long the meat
must stay in these _marinades_; the time varies according to the size
and quality of the joints, and the taste of the consumer, &c. All that
can be said is that three hours should be sufficient to _marinade_ a
cutlet or escalope of roebuck, and that for big joints such as saddle
or leg the time should not exceed four days.


170—MARINADE FOR MUTTON, ROEBUCK-STYLE

This is exactly the same as cooked _marinade_, Recipe 168. There need only
be added one oz. of juniper berries, a few sprigs of rosemary, wild
thyme, and basil, two extra garlic cloves, and one quart less of water.


171—MARINADE WITH RED WINE FOR MUTTON

By substituting red wine for white in the preceding formula—the
quantity of the liquid equalling that of the water—and by slightly
increasing the quantity of aromatics, an excellent _marinade_ for
mutton is obtained, which in summer enables one to preserve meat,
otherwise perishable, for some days.


172—BRINE

_Quantities Required for Fifty Quarts._

  56 lbs. of gray salt.
  50 quarts of water.
  6 lbs. of saltpetre.
  3½ lbs. of brown sugar.

_Mode of Procedure._—Put the salt and the water in a tinned copper pan,
and put it on an open fire. When the water boils, throw in a peeled
potato, and, if the latter float, add water until it begins to sink.
If, on the contrary, the potato should sink immediately, reduce the
liquid until it is able to buoy the tuber up. At this stage the sugar
and saltpetre are added; let them dissolve, and the brine is then
removed from the fire and is allowed to cool. It is then poured into
the receptacle intended for it, which must be either of slate, stone,
cement, or well-jointed tiles. It is well to place in the bottom of
this reservoir a wooden lattice, whereon the meats to be salted may be
laid, for, were the immersed objects to lie directly on the bottom of
the receptacle, the under parts would be entirely shielded from the
brine.

If the meats to be salted are of an appreciable size, they should be
inoculated with brine by means of a special syringe. Without this
measure it would be impossible to salt regularly, as the sides would
already be over-saturated before the centre had even been properly
reached.

Eight days should be allowed for salting a piece of beef of what size
soever, above eight or ten lb., since the process of inoculation
equalises the salting.

Ox-tongue intended for salting, besides having to be as fresh as
possible, must be trimmed of almost all the cartilage of the throat,
and carefully beaten either with a beater or roller. Then it must be
pricked on all sides with a string-needle, and immersed in the liquid,
where it should be slightly weighted by some means or other in order
to prevent its rising to the surface. A medium-sized tongue would need
about seven days’ immersion in the brine.

Though brine does not turn as easily as the cooked _marinades_,
it would be well, especially in stormy weather, to watch it and
occasionally to boil it. But, as the process of boiling invariably
concentrates the brine, a little water should be added to it every time
it is so treated, and the test of the potato, described above, should
always be resorted to.
