CHAPTER III


=The Small Compound Sauces=

_Remarks._—In order that the classification of the small sauces should
be clear and methodical, I divide them into three parts.

The first part includes the small brown sauces; the second deals
with the small white sauces and those suited to this part of the
classification; while the third is concerned with the English sauces.


=The Small Brown Sauces=


31—SAUCE BIGARRADE

This sauce is principally used to accompany braised and poëled
ducklings. In the first case, the duckling’s braising stock, being
thickened, constitutes a sauce. In the second case, the stock is clear,
and the procedure in both cases is as follows:—

1. After having strained the braising sauce, completely remove its
grease, and reduce it until it is very dense. Strain it once more
through muslin, twisting the latter; then, in order to bring the sauce
to its normal consistence, add the juice of six oranges and one lemon
per quart of sauce. Finish with a small piece of lemon and orange
rind cut regularly and finely, Julienne-fashion, and scalded for five
minutes.

2. Strain the poëling stock, for ducklings or wild ducks, through
linen; entirely remove the grease, and add four pieces of caramel sugar
dissolved in one tablespoonful of vinegar per one-half point of stock,
the juice of the oranges and the lemon and the Julienne of rinds, as
for the braised-ducklings sauce indicated above.


32—SAUCE BORDELAISE

Put into a vegetable-pan two oz. of very finely minced shallots,
one-half pint of good red wine, a pinch of mignonette pepper, and
bits of thyme and bay. Reduce the wine by three-quarters, and add
one-half pint of half-glaze. Keep the sauce simmering for half an hour;
despumate it from time to time, and strain it through linen or a sieve.
When dishing it up, finish it with two tablespoonfuls of dissolved
meat glaze, a few drops of lemon-juice, and four oz. of beef-marrow,
cut into slices or cubes and poached in slightly salted boiling water.
This sauce may be buttered to the extent of about three oz. per pint,
which makes it smoother, but less clear. It is especially suitable for
grilled butcher’s meat.


33—CHASSEUR SAUCE (Escoffier’s Method)

Peel and mince six medium-sized mushrooms. Heat one-half oz. of butter
and as much olive oil in a vegetable-pan; put in the mushrooms, and
fry the latter quickly until they are slightly browned. Now add a
coffeespoonful of minced shallots, and immediately remove half the
butter; pour one-half pint of white wine and one glass of liqueur
brandy into the stewpan; reduce this liquid to half, and finish the
sauce with: one-half pint of half-glaze, one-quarter pint of tomato
sauce, and one tablespoonful of meat-glaze. Set to boil for five
minutes more, and complete with a teaspoonful of chopped parsley.


34—BROWN CHAUD-FROID SAUCE

Put one quart of half-glaze into a sauté-pan with one-fifth pint of
truffle essence. Put the pan on an open fire, and reduce its contents;
while making same add to the sauce, in small quantities at a time, one
and one-half pints of jelly.

The degree of reduction in this sauce is a good third, but, to be quite
certain, a test of its consistence may be made by allowing it to
cool a little. After the reduction, carefully taste, and rectify the
seasoning if necessary; mix a little Madeira or Port with the sauce,
away from the fire, and strain through muslin or, preferably, through a
Venetian-hair sieve. Stir the sauce now and then while it cools, until
it is sufficiently liquid, and at the same time consistent enough,
to coat immersed solids evenly with a film of sauce. Its use will be
explained among the formulæ of the different kinds of Chaud-froids.


35—VARIETIES OF THE CHAUD-FROID SAUCE

_For Ducks._—Prepare the sauce as above, adding to it (for the
prescribed quantity) one-half pint of duck _fumet_ obtained from the
carcases and remains of roast duckling, and finish it, away from the
fire, with the juice of four oranges and a heaped tablespoonful of
orange rind, cut finely, Julienne-fashion, and scalded for five minutes.

_For Feathered Game._—Treat the Chaud-Froid sauce as indicated in
Recipe 34, adding one-half pint of the _fumet_ of the game constituting
the dish in order to lend it that game’s characteristic taste. Observe
the same precaution for the cooling.

_For Fish._—Proceed as in Recipe 34, but (1) substitute the Espagnole
of fish for the half glaze; (2) intensify the first Espagnole with
one-half pint of very clear fish essence; (3) use Lenten jelly instead
of meat jelly.

_Remarks upon the Use of Chaud-Froid Sauces._—The chaud-froid sauce
may be prepared beforehand, and when it is wanted it need only be
gently melted without heating it too much. It ought simply to be made
sufficiently liquid to give a good coating to substances immersed in it.


36—DEVILLED SAUCE

Put in a vegetable pan two oz. of sliced shallots and one-third pint
of white wine. Reduce the latter to two-thirds, add one-half pint of
half-glaze, reduce to two-thirds, season strongly with cayenne pepper,
and strain through muslin. This sauce may be served with grilled fowls
or pigeons. It also forms an excellent accompaniment to re-dished meat
which needs a spicy sauce.


37—“ESCOFFIER” DEVILLED SAUCE

This sauce, which may be bought ready-made, is admirably fitted to
accompany grilled fish and grills in general. In order to make it
ready, all that is needed is to add its own volume of fresh butter
to it, the latter being previously well softened so as to ensure its
perfect mixture with the sauce.


38—GENEVOISE SAUCE

Heat two oz. of butter in a stewpan; insert one lb. of Mirepoix
(Recipe 228) without bacon. Slightly brown, add two lbs. of head of salmon
and remains or bones of fish, and stew with lid on for twenty minutes.
Let the stewpan lean slightly to one side, so that the butter may be
drained; moisten with one bottle of excellent red wine; reduce the
latter by half; add one pint of Lenten Espagnole, and allow to cook
gently for half an hour.

Rub the sauce through a sieve, pressing it so as to extract all the
essence. Let it rest awhile; carefully remove the fat which has risen
to the surface, and add one liqueur-glass of burnt brandy, one-half
pint of red wine, and as much fish _fumet_. Boil again, then move
stewpan to the side of fire to despumate for one and one-half hours.
Frequently remove what the ebullition causes to rise to the surface,
this second period of cooking being only to ensure the purification
of the sauce. If the ebullition has been well effected, the sauce
should reach the proper degree of reduction and despumation at the same
moment of time. It is then strained through muslin or tammy, and it is
finished at the last minute with a few drops of anchovy essence and
four oz. of butter per quart of sauce.

N.B.—The Genevoise Sauce, like all red-wine sauces, may be served
without being buttered. It is thus clearer and more sightly in colour,
but the addition of butter in small quantities makes it mellower and
more palatable.


38a—REMARKS ON RED-WINE SAUCES

In the general repertory of cooking we also have, in the way of
red-wine sauces, the “Bourguignonne,” “Matelote,” and “Red-Wine”
sauces, which are closely allied to the “Genevoise,” and only differ
from it in details of procedure.

The “Bourguignonne” Sauce is composed of red-wine accompanied by
aromatics, and reduced by half. In accordance with ordinary principles,
it is thickened by means of three oz. of manied butter per quart of
reduced wine. This sauce is buttered with four oz. of butter per quart,
and is especially regarded as a domestic preparation for poached,
moulded, and hard-boiled eggs.

“Matelote” Sauce is made from Court-bouillon, with red wine which has
been used for cooking fish. This Court-bouillon, with the mushroom
parings added, is reduced by two-thirds, and is thickened with one
pint of Lenten Espagnole per pint of the reduced Court-bouillon.

This sauce should be reduced by a third, strained through a tammy, and
finished by means of two oz. of butter and a little cayenne per pint of
sauce.

The Red-Wine Sauce resembles the two preceding ones in so far as it
contains mirepoix browned in butter and diluted with red wine. The wine
is reduced by half, thickened by a pint of Lenten Espagnole per pint of
the reduction, and the sauce is despumated for about twenty minutes. It
is strained through a tammy, and finished, when ready, by a few drops
of anchovy essence, a little cayenne, and two oz. of butter per pint of
sauce.


39—GRAND-VENEUR SAUCE

Take one pint of Poivrade Sauce (Recipe 49) and boil it, adding one pint
of game stock to keep it light; reduce the sauce by a good third;
remove it from the fire, and add four tablespoonfuls of red-currant
jelly. When the latter is well dissolved, complete the sauce by
one-quarter pint of cream per pint of sauce.

This sauce is the proper accompaniment for joints of venison.


40—ITALIAN SAUCE

_Ordinary Italian Sauce._—Put into a stewpan six tablespoonfuls of
Duxelles (see Recipe 223), two oz. of very lean, cooked ham, cut very
finely, brunoise-fashion, and one pint of half-glaze tomatée. Boil
for ten minutes, and complete, at the moment of dishing up, with one
teaspoonful of parsley, chervil, and tarragon, minced and mixed.

_Lenten Italian Sauce._—Same preparation, only (1) omit the Ham, and
(2) substitute Lent Espagnole (combined with fish _fumet_ made from the
fish for which the sauce is intended) for half glaze with tomatoes.


41—THICKENED GRAVY

Boil one pint of poultry or veal stock (according to the nature of
the dish the gravy is intended for). Thicken this sauce by means of
three-quarters oz. of fecula, diluted cold, with a little water or
gravy, and pour this leason into the boiling gravy, being careful to
stir briskly.

The thickened gravy with the veal-stock base is used for choicest
pieces of butcher’s meat; that with a poultry-stock base is for fillets
of poultry.


42—VEAL GRAVY TOMATÉ

Add to one pint of veal stock two oz. of purée and one-quarter pint of
tomato juice, and reduce by a fifth. Strain the gravy through linen.
This gravy is for butcher’s meat.


43—LYONNAISE SAUCE

Finely mince two oz. of onions and brown them slightly in two oz.
of butter. Moisten with one-quarter pint of white wine and as much
vinegar; almost entirely reduce the liquid; add one and one-half pints
of clear half-glaze, and set to cook slowly for half an hour. Rub the
sauce through a tammy.

N.B.—The onion may be left in the sauce or not, according to the
preparation for which it is intended and the taste of the consumer.


44—MADEIRA SAUCE

Put one and one-half pints of half-glaze into a sauté-pan, and reduce
it on a brisk fire to a stiff consistence. When it reaches this point,
take it off the fire and add one-fifth pint of Madeira to it, which
brings it back to its normal consistence. Strain through a tammy, and
keep it warm without allowing it to boil.


45—MARROW SAUCE

Follow the proportions as indicated under “Sauce Bordelaise” (Recipe 32)
for the necessary quantity of this sauce, the Marrow Sauce being only
a variety of the Bordelaise. Finish it with six oz. per quart of beef
marrow, cut into cubes, poached and well drained, and one teaspoonful
of chopped parsley, scalded for a second. If the sauce is to accompany
vegetables, finish it, away from the fire, with three oz. of butter,
and then add the cubes of marrow and the parsley.


46—PIGNONS SAUCE

Take the necessary amount of Poivrade Sauce prepared according to
Recipe 49, and let it boil. Now, for one pint of sauce, prepare
an infusion of juniper berries, with one-quarter pint of water and
two oz. of concassed berries; one oz. of grilled fir-apple kernels,
and one oz. of raisins, stoned and washed, and left to soak in tepid
water for about an hour. Finish the sauce, when dishing up, by adding
the infusion of juniper berries strained through linen, the grilled
kernels, the soaked raisins, and one-eighth pint of Madeira wine.

This sauce is specially suited to joints of venison.


47—PÉRIGUEUX SAUCE

Prepare a “Sauce Madère” as explained in Recipe 44, and add to the
half-glaze, to be reduced, half its volume of very strong veal stock,
and keep it a little denser than usual. Finish this sauce by adding
one-sixth pint of truffle essence and three oz. of chopped truffles
per quart of Madeira Sauce. It is used for numerous small entrées,
timbales, hot pâtés, &c.


48—PIQUANTE SAUCE

Put into a vegetable pan two oz. of minced shallots, one-quarter pint
of vinegar, and as much white wine. Reduce the liquid by a good half,
and add one pint of half-glaze; set the sauce to boil, and despumate
it for half an hour. At the last moment finish it, away from the fire,
with two oz. of gherkins, one oz. of capers, and a teaspoonful of
chervil, parsley, and tarragon, mixed; all the ingredients to be finely
chopped. This sauce generally accompanies grilled or boiled pork, and
cold meat re-dished and minced which needs spicy flavouring.


49—ORDINARY POIVRADE SAUCE

1. Heat two oz. of butter in a stewpan, and insert one lb. of raw
Mirepoix (Recipe 228). Fry the vegetables until they are well browned;
moisten with one-quarter pint of vinegar and one-half pint of Marinade
(Recipe 169); reduce to two-thirds; add one pint of Espagnole Sauce,
and cook for three-quarters of an hour. Ten minutes before straining
the sauce, put in a few crushed peppercorns. If the pepper were put in
the sauce earlier, it might make it bitter.

2. Pass the sauce through a strainer, pressing the aromatics; add a
further one-half pint of Marinade, and despumate for one-quarter of an
hour, keeping it simmering the while. Strain again through tammy, and
finish the sauce, when ready for dishing, with two oz. of butter.

This sauce is suitable for joints marinaded or not.


50—POIVRADE SAUCE FOR VENISON

Fry, with two oz. of butter and two oz. of oil, one lb. of raw Mirepoix
(Recipe 228) to which are added four lbs. of well-broken bones and
ground-game trimmings. When the whole is well browned, drain the grease
away, and dilute with one pint of vinegar and one pint of white wine.
Reduce this liquid by three-quarters, then add three quarts of game
stock and a quart of Espagnole Sauce. Boil, cover the saucepan, and put
into a moderate oven, where it should stay for at least three hours.
At the end of this time take out the saucepan and pour its contents
into a fine sieve placed over a tureen; press the remains so as to
expel all the sauce they hold, and pour the sauce into a tall, thick
saucepan. Add enough game stock and Marinade, mixed in equal parts,
to produce three quarts in all of sauce, and gently reduce the latter
while despumating it. As it diminishes in volume, it should be passed
through muslin into smaller saucepans, and the reduction should be
stopped when only a quart of sauce remains.

N.B.—This sauce, like red-wine sauces, may be served as it stands. It
is brilliant, clear, and perhaps more sightly thus, but the addition of
a certain quantity of butter (four oz. per quart) makes it perfectly
mellow, and admirably completes its fragrance.


51—PROVENÇALE SAUCE

Peel, remove the seeds, press and concass twelve medium tomatoes.
Heat in a sauté-pan one-fifth pint of oil, until it begins to smoke
a little; insert the tomatoes seasoned with pepper and salt; add a
crushed garlic clove, a pinch of powdered sugar, one teaspoonful of
chopped parsley, and allow to melt gently for half an hour. In reality,
true Provençale is nothing but a fine fondue of tomatoes with garlic.


52—ROBERT SAUCE

Finely mince a large onion and put it into a stewpan with butter. Fry
the onion gently and without letting it acquire any colour. Dilute
with one-third pint of white wine, reduce the latter by one-third,
add one pint of half-glaze, and leave to simmer for twenty minutes.
When dishing up, finish the sauce with one tablespoonful of meat
glaze, one teaspoonful of mustard, and one pinch of powdered sugar.
If, when finished, the sauce has to wait, it should be kept warm in
a _bain-marie_, as it must not boil again. This sauce—of a spicy
flavour—is best suited to grilled and boiled pork. It may also be used
for a mince of the same meat.


53—ESCOFFIER ROBERTS SAUCE

This sauce may be bought ready-made. It is used either hot or cold. It
is especially suitable for pork, veal, poultry, and even fish, and is
generally used hot with grills after the equivalent of its volume of
excellent brown stock has been added to it. It may also be served cold
to accompany cold meat.


54—ROUENNAISE SAUCE

Prepare a “Bordelaise” sauce according to Recipe 32. The diluent
of this sauce must be an excellent red wine. For one pint of sauce,
pass four raw ducks’ livers through a sieve; add the resulting purée to
the Bordelaise, and heat the latter for a few minutes in order to poach
the liver. Be careful, however, not to heat the sauce too much nor too
long, lest the liver be cooked. Serve this sauce with duckling à la
Rouennaise.


55—SALMIS SAUCE

The base of this sauce, which rather resembles the cullis, is
unchangeable. Its diluent only changes according to the kind of birds
or game to be treated, and whether this game is to be considered
ordinary or Lenten.

Cut and gently brown in butter five oz. of Mirepoix (Recipe 228). Add
the shin detached from the limbs and the chopped carcase of the bird
under treatment, and moisten with one pint of white wine. Reduce the
latter to two-thirds, add one-half pint of half glaze, and boil gently
for three-quarters of an hour. Pass through a strainer, while pressing
upon the carcase and the aromatics, with the view of extracting their
quintessence, and thin the cullis thus obtained by means of one-half
pint of game stock or mushroom liquor, if the game be Lenten. Now
despumate for about one hour, finally reduce the sauce, bring it to its
proper consistency with a little mushroom liquor and truffle essence,
rub it through tammy, and butter it slightly at the last moment.


56—TORTUE SAUCE

Boil one-half pint of veal stock, adding a small sprig of sage, sweet
marjoram, rosemary, basil, thyme, and as much bay, two oz. of mushroom
parings, and one oz. of parsley. Cover and allow to infuse for half an
hour. Two minutes before straining the infusion, add four concassed
peppercorns.

After straining through fine linen, add one-half pint of half-glaze and
as much tomato sauce (away from the fire) with four tablespoonfuls of
sherry, a little truffle essence, and a good pinch of cayenne.

N.B.—As this sauce must be spicy, the use of cayenne suggests itself,
but great caution should be observed, as there must be no excess of
this condiment.


57—VENISON SAUCE

Prepare a Poivrade sauce for game, as explained in Recipe 50. Finish
this sauce with two tablespoonfuls of red-currant jelly, previously
dissolved, and mixed with five tablespoonfuls of fresh cream per pint
of sauce. This addition of cream and red-currants must be made away
from the fire.

Serve this sauce with big ground-game.


=Small White and Compound Sauces.=


58—AMERICAN SAUCE

This sauce is that of lobster prepared “à l’Américaine” (see Recipe 939).
As it generally accompanies a fish, the meat of the lobster or lobsters
which have served in its preparation is sliced and used as the garnish
of the fish.


59—ANCHOVY SAUCE

Put into a small stewpan one pint of unbuttered “Normande Sauce”
(Recipe 99), and finish it, away from the fire, with three oz. of anchovy
butter, and one oz. of anchovy fillets, washed, well sponged, and cut
into small pieces.


60—AURORE SAUCE

Into one-half pint of boiling velouté put the same quantity of very red
tomato purée (Recipe 29), and mix the two. Let the sauce boil a little,
pass it through a tammy, and finish, away from the fire, with three oz.
of butter.


61—LENTEN AURORE SAUCE

This sauce is made like the preceding one, _i.e._, with the same
quantities of velouté and tomato purée, replacing ordinary velouté by
fish velouté.


62—BÉARNAISE SAUCE

Put into a small stewpan one teaspoonful of chopped shallots, two oz.
of chopped tarragon stalks, three oz. of chervil, some mignonette
pepper, a pinch of salt, and four tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Reduce
the vinegar by two-thirds, take off the fire, let the stewpan cool a
little, and add to this reduction the yolks of five eggs. Now put the
stewpan on a low fire and gradually combine with the yolks six oz. of
melted butter. Whisk the sauce briskly, so as to ensure the cooking of
the yolks, which alone, by gradual cooking, effect the leason of the
sauce.

When the butter is combined with the sauce, rub the latter through
tammy, and finish it with a teaspoonful of chervil parings and chopped
tarragon leaves. Complete the seasoning with a suspicion of cayenne.
This sauce should not be served very hot, as it is really a mayonnaise
with butter. It need only be tepid, for it would probably turn if it
were over-heated. Serve it with grilled, butcher’s meat and poultry.


63—BÉARNAISE SAUCE WITH MEAT GLAZE, OTHERWISE VALOIS SAUCE OR FOYOT
SAUCE

Prepare a Béarnaise sauce as explained in Recipe 62. Complete it with
three tablespoonfuls of dissolved pale meat glaze, which may be added
in small quantities at a time. Serve it with butcher’s meat.


64—BÉARNAISE TOMATÉE SAUCE OR CHORON SAUCE

Proceed in exactly the same way as for Béarnaise Recipe 62. When the sauce
is made and rubbed through tammy, finish it with one-third pint of
very red tomato purée. In this case the final addition of chervil and
tarragon should not be made.

This is proper to “Tournedos Choron,” but it may accompany grilled
poultry and white, butcher’s meat.


65—BERCY SAUCE

Heat two oz. of chopped shallots. Moisten with one-half pint of white
wine and as much fish _fumet_, or, when possible, the same quantity of
fish liquor, the latter being, of course, that of a fish similar to the
one the sauce is to accompany. Reduce to a good third, add one-third
pint of velouté, let the sauce boil some time, and finish it, away from
the fire, with four oz. of butter (added by degrees), a few drops of
fish glaze, half the juice of a lemon, and one oz. of chopped parsley.

Serve with medium-sized poached fish.


66—BUTTER SAUCE

Mix two oz. of sifted flour with two oz. of melted butter. Dilute with
one quart of boiling water, salted to the extent of one-quarter oz. per
quart. Stir briskly to ensure a perfect leason, and do not allow to
boil. Add immediately the yolks of six eggs mixed with one-quarter pint
of cream and the juice of half a lemon. Rub through a tammy, and finish
the sauce with five oz. of best fresh butter.

Be careful that the sauce does not boil after it has been thickened.


67—BONNEFOY SAUCE, OR WHITE BORDELAISE SAUCE

Put in a stewpan two oz. of minced shallots and one-half pint of
Graves, Sauterne, or any other excellent white Bordeaux. Reduce the
wine almost entirely, add one-quarter pint of velouté, let it simmer
twenty minutes, and rub it through a tammy. Finish it, away from the
fire, with six oz. of butter and a little chopped tarragon.

Serve it with grilled fish and grilled white meat.


68—CAPER SAUCE

This is a derivative of the Butter Sauce described under Recipe 66, and
there need only be added two tablespoonfuls of capers per pint of
sauce. It frequently accompanies boiled fish of all kinds.


69—CARDINAL SAUCE

Boil one pint of Béchamel, to which add one-half pint of fish _fumet_
and a little truffle essence, and reduce by a quarter. Finish the
sauce, when dishing up, with three tablespoonfuls of cream and
three oz. of very red lobster butter (Recipe 149).

This sauce is poured over the fish.


70—MUSHROOM SAUCE

If this be intended for poultry, add one-fifth pint of mushroom liquor
and eight oz. of button-mushroom heads turned or channelled and cooked,
to one pint of very stiff Allemande Sauce.

If it be intended for fish, take one pint of fish velouté, thickened
with the yolks of four eggs, and finish it with mushroom liquor, as
above.

The sauce that I suggest for poultry may also be used for fish, after
adding the necessary quantity of fish _fumet_.


71—CHÂTEAUBRIAND SAUCE

Put one oz. of chopped shallots, a sprig of thyme and a bit of bay,
one oz. of mushroom parings, and one-quarter pint of white wine into
a stewpan. Reduce the wine almost entirely, add one-half pint of veal
gravy, and reduce again until the liquid only measures one-quarter
pint. Strain through muslin, and finish the sauce away from the fire
with four oz. of butter “Maître d’Hôtel” (Recipe 150), to which may be
added a little chopped tarragon. Serve with grilled fillet of beef,
otherwise “Châteaubriand.”


72—WHITE CHAUD-FROID SAUCE

Boil one pint of velouté in a stewpan, and add three-quarters pint of
melted white poultry jelly. Put the stewpan on an open fire, reduce
the sauce by a third, stirring constantly the while, and gradually
add one-half pint of very fresh cream. When the sauce has reached the
desired degree of consistency rub it through a tammy, and stir it
frequently while it cools, for fear of a skin forming on its surface,
for if this happened it would have to be strained again. When dishing
up, this sauce should be cold, so that it may properly coat immersed
solids and yet be liquid enough to admit of the latter being easily
steeped into it.


73—ORDINARY CHAUD-FROID SAUCE

Proceed exactly as above, substituting Allemande Sauce for the velouté,
and reducing the quantity of cream to one-quarter pint. Observe the
same precautions while cooling.


74—CHAUD-FROID SAUCE, A L’AURORE

Prepare a white Chaud-Froid (Recipe 72). The same may be coloured by the
addition of fine red tomato purée—more or less to match the desired
shade—or by an infusion of paprika, according to the use for which it
is intended. This last product is preferable when not too deep a shade
is required.


75—CHAUD-FROID SAUCE, AU VERT-PRÉ

Add to the velouté of the white Chaud-Froid sauce, at the same time as
the jelly, an infusion prepared thus:—Boil one-quarter pint of white
wine, and add to it one pinch of chervil stalks, a similar quantity of
tarragon leaves, chives, and parsley leaves. Cover, allow infusion to
proceed away from the fire for ten minutes, and strain through linen.

Treat the sauce as explained, and finish with spinach-green (Recipe 143).
The shade of the sauce must not be too pronounced, but must remain
a pale green. The colouring principle must therefore be added with
caution and in small quantities, until the correct shade is obtained.
Use this sauce for Chaud-froids of fowl, particularly that kind
distinguished as “_Printanier_.”


76—LENT CHAUD-FROID SAUCE

Proceed as for white Chaud-Froid, using the same quantities, and taking
note of the following modifications:—

1. Substitute fish velouté for ordinary velouté.

2. Substitute white fish jelly for poultry jelly.

_Remarks._—I have adopted the use of this ordinary Chaud-Froid sauce
for the glazing of fillets and escalopes of fish and Shell-fish,
instead of cleared Mayonnaise, formerly used, which had certain
inconveniences—not the least being the oozing away of the oil under
the shrinkage of the gelatine. This difficulty does not obtain in the
ordinary Chaud-Froid, the definite and pronounced flavour of which is
better than that of the cleared Mayonnaise.


77—“ESCOFFIER” CHERRY SAUCE

This sauce may be bought ready-made. Like the Roberts Sauce, it can be
served hot or cold. It is an excellent adjunct to venison, and even to
small ground-game. Saddle of venison with this sauce constitutes one of
the greatest dainties that an epicure could desire.


78—CHIVRY SAUCE

In one-half pint of boiling poultry stock put a large pinch of chervil
pluches, tarragon and parsley leaves, a head of young pimpernel (the
qualification here is very important, for this aromatic plant grows
bitter as it matures), and a good pinch of chives. Cover up, and
let infusion proceed for ten to twelve minutes; then add the liquid
(strained through linen) to one pint of velouté. Boil, reduce by a
quarter, and complete it with two oz. of Green Butter (Recipe 143). Chivry
Sauce is admirably suited to boiled or poached poultry.


79—CREAM SAUCE

Boil one pint of Béchamel Sauce, and add one-quarter pint of cream
to it. Reduce on an open fire until the sauce has become very thick;
then pass through tammy. Bring to its normal degree of consistency by
gradually adding, away from the fire, one-quarter pint of very fresh
cream and a few drops of lemon-juice. Serve this sauce with boiled
fish, poultry, eggs, and various vegetables.


80—SHRIMP SAUCE

Boil one pint of fish velouté or, failing this, Béchamel sauce, and add
to it one-quarter pint of cream and one-quarter pint of very clear fish
_fumet_. Reduce to one pint, and finish the sauce, away from the fire,
with two oz. of Shrimp Butter (Recipe 145) and two oz. of shelled shrimps’
tails.


81—CURRY SAUCE

Slightly brown the following vegetables in butter:—Twelve oz. of minced
onions, one oz. of parsley roots, four oz. of minced celery, a small
sprig of thyme, a bit of bay, and a little mace. Sprinkle with two oz.
of flour and a teaspoonful of curry pepper. Cook the flour for some
minutes without letting it acquire any colour, and dilute with one and
one-half pints of white stock. Boil, cook gently for three-quarters
of an hour, and rub through a tammy. Now heat the sauce, remove its
grease, and keep it in the _bain-marie_. Serve this sauce with fish,
shell-fish, poultry, and various egg-preparations.

N.B.—This sauce is sometimes flavoured with cocoa-nut milk in the
proportion of one-quarter of the diluent.


82—DIPLOMATE SAUCE

Take one pint of Normande Sauce, prepared according to Recipe 99, and
finish it with two oz. of lobster butter and three tablespoonfuls of
lobster meat, and truffles cut into small, regular tubes.


83—HERB SAUCE

Prepare one pint of white-wine sauce (Recipe 111). Finish it away from
the fire with three oz. of shallot butter, a tablespoonful of parsley,
chervil, tarragon, and chives, chopped and mixed. Serve this sauce with
boiled or poached fish.


84—GOOSEBERRY SAUCE

Prepare one pint of butter sauce, Recipe 66. Meanwhile put one lb.
of green gooseberries into a small copper saucepan containing boiling
water. Boil for five minutes, then drain the gooseberries, and put them
in a little stewpan with one-half pint of white wine and three oz. of
powdered sugar. Gently cook the gooseberries, rub them through a tammy,
and add the resulting pulp to the butter sauce. This sauce is excellent
with grilled mackerel and the poached fillets of that fish.


85—HUNGARIAN SAUCE

Gently fry in butter, without colouring, two tablespoonfuls of chopped
onions seasoned with table-salt and half a teaspoonful of paprika.
Moisten with one-quarter pint of white wine, add a small faggot, reduce
the wine by two-thirds, and remove the herbs.

Finish with one pint of ordinary or Lenten Velouté, according to the
use for which the sauce is intended, and boil moderately for five
minutes. Then rub the sauce through a tammy, and complete it with
two oz. of butter. Remember this sauce should be of a tender, pink
shade, which it must owe to the paprika alone.

It forms an ideal accompaniment to choice morsels of lamb and veal,
eggs, poultry, and fish.


86—OYSTER SAUCE

Take one pint of Normande Sauce, finish it as directed in that recipe,
and complete it with one-quarter pint of reduced oyster liquor,
strained through linen, and twelve poached and trimmed oysters.


87—IVORY SAUCE, OR ALBUFERA SAUCE

Take the necessary quantity of Suprême Sauce, prepared as explained
in Recipe 106a. Add to this four tablespoonfuls of dissolved, pale, meat
glaze per quart of sauce, in order to lend the latter that ivory-white
tint which characterises it. Serve this sauce chiefly with poultry and
poached sweet-bread.


88—JOINVILLE SAUCE

Prepare one pint of Normande Sauce (Recipe 99), as given in the first
part of its formula, and complete it with two oz. of shrimp butter and
two oz. of crayfish butter. If this sauce is to accompany a fish à la
Joinville, which includes a special garnish, it is served as it stands.
If it is served with a large, boiled, ungarnished fish, one oz. of
very black truffles cut _Julienne-fashion_ should be added. As may be
seen, Joinville Sauce differs from similar preparations in the final
operation where crayfish and shrimp butter are combined.


89—MALTESE SAUCE

To the Hollandaise Sauce, given under Recipe 30, add, when dishing up,
the juice of two blood oranges (these late-season oranges being
especially suitable for this sauce) and half a coffeespoonful of grated
orange-rind.

Maltese Sauce is the finest for asparagus.


90—MARINIÈRE SAUCE

Take the necessary quantity of Bercy Sauce (Recipe 65), and add, per pint
of sauce, one-quarter pint of mussel liquor and a leason composed of
the yolks of three eggs.

Serve this with small poached fish and more particularly with mussels.


91—MORNAY SAUCE

Boil one pint of Béchamel Sauce with one-quarter pint of the _fumet_
of the fish, poultry, or vegetable, which is to constitute the dish.
Reduce by a good quarter, and add two oz. of Gruyère and two oz. of
grated Parmesan.

Put the sauce on the fire again for a few minutes, and ensure the
melting of the cheese by stirring with a small whisk. Finish the sauce
away from the fire with two oz. of butter added by degrees.


92—MOUSSELINE SAUCE

To a Hollandaise Sauce, prepared as explained (Recipe 30), add, just
before dishing up, one-half pint of stiffly-whipped cream per pint of
sauce.


93—MOUSSEUSE SAUCE

Scald and wipe a small vegetable-pan, and put into it one-half lb. of
stiffly-_manied_ butter, properly softened. Season this butter with
table-salt and a few drops of lemon-juice, and whisk it while gradually
adding one-third pint of cold water. Finish with two tablespoonfuls
of very firm, whipped cream. This preparation, though classified as a
sauce, is really a compound butter, which is served with boiled fish.
The heat of the fish alone suffices to melt it, and its appearance is
infinitely more agreeable than that of plain, melted butter.


94—MUSTARD SAUCE

Take the necessary quantity of butter sauce and complete it, away from
the fire, with one tablespoonful of mustard per pint of sauce.

N.B.—If the sauce has to wait, it must be kept in a _bain-marie_, for
it should not on any account boil. It is served with certain small
grilled fish, especially fresh herrings.


95—NANTUA SAUCE

Boil one pint of Béchamel Sauce, add one-half pint of cream, and reduce
by a third. Rub it through a tammy, and finish it with a further
addition of two tablespoonfuls of cream, three oz. of very fine
crayfish butter, and one tablespoonful of small, shelled crayfishes’
tails.


96—NEWBURG SAUCE

_First Method_ (_with Raw Lobsters_).—Divide a two lb. lobster into
four parts. Remove its creamy parts, pound them finely with two oz. of
butter, and put them aside.

Heat in a sautépan one and one-half oz. of butter and as much oil, and
insert the pieces of lobster, well seasoned with salt and cayenne. Fry
until the pieces assume a fine, red colour; entirely drain away the
butter, and add two tablespoonfuls of burnt brandy and one-third pint
of Marsala or old Sherry.

Reduce the wine by two-thirds, and wet the lobster with one-third pint
of cream and one-half pint of fish _fumet_. Now add a faggot, cover
the sautépan, and gently cook for twenty-five minutes. Then drain the
lobster on a sieve, remove the meat and cut it into cubes, and finish
the sauce by adding the creamy portions put aside from the first. Boil
so as to ensure the cooking of these latter portions; add the meat, cut
into cubes, and verify the seasoning.

N.B.—The addition of the meat to the sauce is optional; instead of
cutting it into cubes it may be stewed and displayed on the fish
constituting the dish.


97—SECOND METHOD (WITH COOKED LOBSTER)

The lobster having been cooked in a _Court-bouillon_, shell the tail
and slice it up. Arrange these slices in a sautépan liberally buttered
at the bottom; season them strongly with salt and cayenne, and heat
them on both sides so as to effect the reddening of the skin. Immerse,
so as to cover, in a good Sherry, and almost entirely reduce same.

When dishing up, pour on to the slices a leason composed of one-third
pint of fresh cream and the yolks of two eggs. Gently stir, away from
the fire, and roll the saucepan about until the leason is completed.

Originally, these two sauces, like the American, were exclusively
composed of, and served with, lobster. They were one with the two very
excellent preparations of lobster which bear their name. In its two
forms lobster may only be served at lunch, many people with delicate
stomachs being unable to digest it at night. To obviate this serious
difficulty, I have made it a practice to serve lobster sauce with
fillets or Mousselines of sole, adding the lobster as a garnish only.
And this innovation proved most welcome to the public.

By using such condiments as curry and paprika, excellent varieties of
this sauce may be obtained, which are particularly suited to sole and
other white Lenten fish. In either of these cases it is well to add a
little rice “à l’Indienne” to the fish.


98—NOISETTE SAUCE

Prepare a Hollandaise Sauce according to the recipe under Recipe 30. Add
two oz. of hazel-nut butter at the last moment.

Serve this with salmon, trout, and all boiled fish in general.


99—NORMANDE SAUCE

Put in a sautépan one pint of fish velouté, three tablespoonfuls of
mushroom liquor, as much oyster liquor, and twice as much sole _fumet_,
the yolks of three eggs, a few drops of lemon-juice, and one-quarter
pint of cream. Reduce by a good third on an open fire, season with a
little cayenne, rub through a tammy, and finish with two oz. of butter
and four tablespoonfuls of good cream.

This sauce is proper to fillet of sole “à la Normande,” but it is also
frequently used as the base of other small sauces.


100—ORIENTAL SAUCE

Take one pint of American sauce, season with curry, and reduce to a
third. Then add, away from the fire, one-quarter pint of cream per pint
of sauce.

Serve this sauce in the same way as American Sauce.


101—POULETTE SAUCE

Boil for a few minutes one pint of Sauce Allemande, and add six
tablespoonfuls of mushroom liquor. Finish, away from the fire, with
two oz. of butter, a few drops of lemon-juice, and one teaspoonful
of chopped parsley. Use this sauce with certain vegetables, but more
generally with sheep’s trotters.


102—RAVIGOTE SAUCE

Reduce by half, one-quarter pint of white wine with half as much
vinegar. Add one pint of ordinary velouté, boil gently for a few
minutes, and finish with one and one-half oz. of shallot butter and
one teaspoonful of chervil, tarragon, and chopped chives. This sauce
accompanies boiled poultry and certain white “_abats_.”


103—REGENCY SAUCE

_If this sauce is to garnish poultry_, boil one pint of Allemande Sauce
with six tablespoonfuls of mushroom essence and two tablespoonfuls of
truffle essence. Finish with four tablespoonfuls of poultry glaze.

_If it is to garnish fish_, substitute for the Allemande Sauce some
fish velouté thickened with egg-yolks and the essences of mushroom and
truffle as above. Complete with some fish essence.


104—SOUBISE SAUCE

Stew in butter two lbs. of finely-minced onions, scalded for three
minutes and well dried. This stewing of the onions in butter increases
their flavour. Now add one-half pint of thickened Béchamel; season with
salt and a teaspoonful of powdered sugar. Cook gently for half an hour,
rub through a tammy, and complete the sauce with some tablespoonfuls of
cream and two oz. of butter.


105—SOUBISE SAUCE WITH RICE

The same quantity as above of minced onions, scalded and well drained.
Garnish the bottom and the sides of a tall, medium stewpan with
some thin rashers of fat bacon. Insert the onions, together with
one-quarter lb. of Carolina rice, one pint of white consommé, a large
pinch of powdered sugar, and the necessary salt. Cook gently in the
front of the oven for three-quarters of an hour. Then pound the onions
and rice in a mortar, rub the resulting purée through a tammy, and
finish with cream and butter as in the preceding case.

N.B.—This sauce, being more consistent than the former, is used as a
garnish just as often as a sauce.


106—SOUBISE SAUCE TOMATÉE

Prepare a soubise in accordance with the first of the two above
formulæ, and add to it one-third of its volume of very red tomato purée.


=Remarks.=

1. The Soubise is rather a cullis than a sauce; _i.e._, its consistence
must be greater than that of a sauce.

2. The admixture of Béchamel in Soubise is preferable to that of rice,
seeing that it makes it smoother. If, in certain cases, rice is used as
a cohering element, in order to give the Soubise more stiffness.

3. In accordance with the uses to which it may be put, the Soubise
Tomatée may be finally seasoned either with curry or paprika.


106a—SUPRÊME SAUCE

The salient characteristics of Suprême Sauce are its perfect whiteness
and consummate delicacy. It is generally prepared in small quantities
only.

_Preparation._—Put one and one-half pints of very clear poultry stock
and one-quarter pint of mushroom cooking liquor into a sautépan. Reduce
to two-thirds; add one pint of “poultry velouté”; reduce on an open
fire, stirring with the spatula the while, and combine one-half pint of
excellent cream with the sauce, this last ingredient being added little
by little.

When the sauce has reached the desired consistence, strain it through
a sieve, and add another one-quarter pint of cream and two oz. of best
butter. Stir with a spoon, from time to time, or keep the pan well
covered.


107—VENETIAN SAUCE

Put into a stewpan one tablespoonful of chopped shallots, one
tablespoonful of chervil, and one-quarter pint of white wine and
tarragon vinegar, mixed in equal quantities. Reduce the vinegar by
two-thirds; add one pint of white wine sauce (Recipe 111); boil for a few
minutes; rub through a tammy, and finish the sauce with a sufficient
quantity of Herb Juice (Recipe 183) and one teaspoonful of chopped chervil
and tarragon. This sauce accompanies various fish.


108—VILLEROY SAUCE

Put into a sautépan one pint of Allemande Sauce to which have been
added two tablespoonfuls of truffle essence and as much ham essence.

Reduce on an open fire and constantly stir until the sauce is
sufficiently stiff to coat immersed solids thickly.


109—VILLEROY SOUBISEE SAUCE

Put into a sautépan two-thirds pint of Allemande Sauce and one-third
pint of Soubise purée (Recipe 105). Reduce as in the preceding case,
as the uses to which this is put are the same. Now, according to the
circumstances and the nature of the solid it is intended for, a few
teaspoonfuls of very black, chopped truffles may be added to this sauce.


110—VILLEROY TOMATÉE SAUCE

Prepare the sauce as explained under Recipe 108, and add to it the third
of its volume of very fine tomato purée. Reduce in the same way.

_Remarks._—1. Villeroy sauce, of whatsoever kind, is solely used for
the coating of preparations said to be “à la Villeroy.”

2. The Villeroy Tomatée may be finally seasoned with curry or paprika,
according to the preparation for which it is intended.


111—WHITE WINE SAUCE

The three following methods are employed in making it:—

1. Add one-quarter pint of fish _fumet_ to one pint of thickened
Velouté, and reduce by half. Finish the sauce, away from the fire, with
four oz. of butter. Thus prepared, this white wine sauce is suitable
for glazed fish.

2. Almost entirely reduce one-quarter pint of fish _fumet_. To this
reduction add the yolks of four eggs, mixing them well in it, and
follow with one lb. of butter, added by degrees, paying heed to the
precautions indicated under sauce Hollandaise Recipe 30.

3. Put the yolks of five eggs into a small stewpan and mix them with
one tablespoonful of cold fish-stock. Put the stewpan in a _bain-marie_
and finish the sauce with one lb. of butter, meanwhile adding from time
to time, and in small quantities, six tablespoonfuls of excellent fish
_fumet_. The procedure in this sauce is, in short, exactly that of the
Hollandaise, with this distinction, that here fish _fumet_ takes the
place of the water.


=Hot English Sauces=


112—APPLE SAUCE

Quarter, peel, core, and chop two lbs. of medium-sized apples; place
these in a stewpan with one tablespoonful of powdered sugar, a bit of
cinnamon, and a few tablespoonfuls of water. Cook the whole gently with
lid on, and smooth the purée with a whisk when dishing up.

Serve this sauce lukewarm with duck, goose, roast hare, &c.


113—BREAD SAUCE

Boil one pint of milk, and add three oz. of fresh, white bread-crumb,
a little salt, a small onion with a clove stuck in it, and one oz. of
butter. Cook gently for about a quarter of an hour, remove the onion,
smooth the sauce with a whisk, and finish it with a few tablespoonfuls
of cream.

This sauce is served with roast fowl and roast feathered game.


114—CELERY SAUCE

Clean six stalks of celery (only use the hearts), put them in a
sautépan, wholly immerse in consommé, add a faggot and one onion with
a clove stuck in it, and cook gently. Drain the celery, pound it in a
mortar, then rub it through a tammy and put the purée in a stewpan.
Now thin the purée with an equal quantity of cream sauce and a little
reduced celery liquor. Heat it moderately, and, if it has to wait, put
it in a _bain-marie_.

This sauce is suited to boiled or braised poultry. It is excellent, and
has been adopted in French cookery.


115—CRANBERRY SAUCE

Cook one pint of cranberries with one quart of water in a stewpan,
and cover the stewpan. When the berries are cooked drain them in a
fine sieve through which they are strained. To the purée thus obtained
add the necessary quantity of their cooking liquor, so as to make a
somewhat thick sauce. Sugar should be added according to the taste of
the consumer.

This sauce is mostly served with roast turkey. It is to be bought
ready-made, and, if this kind be used, it need only be heated with a
little water.


116—FENNEL SAUCE

Take one pint of butter sauce (Recipe 66) and finish it with two
tablespoonfuls of chopped fennel, scalded for a few seconds.

This is principally used with mackerel.


117—EGG SAUCE WITH MELTED BUTTER

Dissolve one-quarter pound of butter, and add to it the necessary salt,
a little pepper, half the juice of a lemon, and three hard-boiled eggs
(hot and cut into large cubes); also a teaspoonful of chopped and
scalded parsley.


118—SCOTCH EGG SAUCE

Make a white roux with one and one-half oz. of butter and one oz.
of flour. Mix in one pint of boiling milk, season with salt, white
pepper, and nutmeg, and boil gently for ten minutes. Then add three hot
hard-boiled eggs, cut into cubes (the whites and the yolks).

This sauce usually accompanies boiled fish, especially fresh haddocks
and fresh and salted cod.


119—HORSE-RADISH OR ALBERT SAUCE

Rasp five oz. of horse-radish and place them in a stewpan with
one-quarter pint of white consommé. Boil gently for twenty minutes
and add a good one-half pint of butter sauce, as much cream, and
one-half oz. of bread-crumb; thicken by reducing on a brisk fire
and rub through tammy. Then thicken with the yolks of two eggs,
and complete the seasoning with a pinch of salt and pepper, and a
teaspoonful of mustard dissolved in a tablespoonful of vinegar.

Serve this sauce with braised or roast beef—especially fillets.


119a—PARSLEY SAUCE

This is the Butter Sauce (Recipe 66), to which is added, per pint, a
heaped tablespoonful of freshly-chopped parsley.


120—REFORM SAUCE

Put into a small stewpan and boil one pint of half-glaze sauce and
one-half pint of ordinary Poivrade sauce. Complete with a garnish
composed of one-half oz. of gherkins, one-half oz. of the hard-boiled
white of an egg, one oz. of salted tongue, one oz. of truffles, and
one oz. of mushrooms. All these to be cut _Julienne-fashion_ and short.

This sauce is for mutton cutlets when these are “à la Reform.”
