INCLUDED TEXT:

CHAPTER IX

=Garnishing Preparations for Relevés and Entrées=


219—POTATO CROQUETTES

Cook quickly in salted water two lb. of peeled and quartered potatoes.
As soon as they seem soft to the finger, drain them, place them in the
front of the oven for a few minutes in order to dry them, and then tilt
them into a sieve lying on a cloth, and press them through the former
without rubbing.

Place the purée in a sautépan; season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg;
add one oz. of butter, and dry; _i.e._, stir over a brisk fire until
the purée becomes a consistent paste.

Take off the fire, complete with the yolks of three eggs, well mixed
with the rest, and turn the paste out on to a buttered dish, taking
care to spread it in a rather thin layer, so as to precipitate its
cooling. Butter the surface to prevent the preparation’s drying.

To make croquettes, equal portions of this paste, _i.e._, portions
weighing about one and one-half oz. of it, are rolled on a flour-dusted
board into the shape of a cork, a ball, or a quoit. These are now
dipped into an _Anglaise_ (Recipe 174) and rolled in bread-crumbs or
raspings, the latter being well patted on to the surface of the
_croquettes_, lest they should fall into the frying fat. Let the
patting also avail for finishing off the selected shape of the objects.
These are then plunged into hot fat, where they should remain until
they have acquired a fine, golden colour.


220—DAUPHINE POTATOES

Prepare as above the required quantity of paste, and add thereto
per lb. six oz. of pâte à choux without sugar (Recipe 2374).

Mix the two constituents thoroughly.

Dauphine potatoes are moulded in the shape of small cylinders, and they
are treated _à l’Anglaise_, like the _croquettes_.


221—DUCHESSE POTATOES

These are the same as the _croquettes_, though they are differently
treated. They are made on a floured board in the shape of diminutive
cottage-loaves, little shuttle-shaped loaves, small quoits, and
lozenges or rectangles. They are _gilded_ with beaten egg, and when
their shape is that of quoits, rectangles, or lozenges, they are
streaked by means of a small knife.

After this operation, which is to prevent the _gilding_ from
blistering, they are baked in the oven for a few minutes previous to
being used in dressing the dishes they accompany.


222—MARQUISE POTATOES

Take one lb. of _croquette_ paste and add thereto six oz. of very
red, reduced tomato-purée. Pour this mixture into a bag fitted with a
large, grooved pipe, and squeeze it out upon a baking-tray in shapes
resembling large meringues.

Slightly _gild_ their surfaces with beaten egg, and put them into the
oven for a few minutes before using them to dress the dish.


223—ORDINARY OR DRY DUXELLE

The uses of Duxelle are legion, and it is prepared thus:—Slightly
fry one teaspoonful of onions in one tablespoonful of butter and oil
mixed. Add to this four tablespoonfuls of mushroom stalks and parings,
chopped and well pressed in a towel with the view of expelling their
vegetable moisture. Stir over a brisk fire until the latter has
completely evaporated; season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, and one
coffeespoonful of well-chopped parsley, mixing the whole thoroughly.

Transfer to a bowl, cover with a piece of white, buttered paper, and
put aside until wanted.


224—DUXELLE FOR STUFFED VEGETABLES (Tomatoes, Mushrooms, &c.)

Put six tablespoonfuls of dry duxelle into a small stewpan, and add
thereto three tablespoonfuls of half-glaze sauce containing plenty of
tomato, crushed garlic the size of a pea, and two tablespoonfuls of
white wine. Set to simmer until the required degree of consistence is
reached.

N.B.—A tablespoonful of fine, fresh bread-crumbs may be added to the
duxelle in order to thicken it.


225—DUXELLE FOR GARNISHING SMALL PIES, ONIONS, CUCUMBERS, ETC.

To four tablespoonfuls of dry duxelle add four tablespoonfuls of
ordinary pork forcemeat (Recipe 196).


226—MAINTENON (preparation used in stuffing preparations à la Maintenon)

Put one pint of Béchamel into a vegetable-pan with one-half pint of
Soubise (Recipe 104), and reduce to half while stirring over a brisk
fire. Thicken, away from the fire, by means of the yolks of five eggs,
and add four tablespoonfuls of minced mushrooms, either cooked in the
ordinary way or stewed in butter.


227—MATIGNON

This preparation serves chiefly for covering certain large joints of
butcher’s meat, or fowl, to which it imparts an appropriate flavour.
It is made as follows:—Finely mince two medium carrots (the red part
only), two onions, and two sticks of celery taken from the heart. Add
one tablespoonful of raw lean ham, cut _paysanne-fashion_, a sprig of
thyme, and half a leaf of bay, crushed.

Stew in butter, and finally swill the saucepan with two tablespoonfuls
of Madeira.


228—MIREPOIX

The purpose of Mirepoix in culinary preparations is the same as that of
Matignon, but its mode of use is different.

Its constituents are the same as those of the Matignon, but instead of
being minced they are cut up into more or less fine dice, in accordance
with the use for which the preparation is intended.

Instead of the ham, fresh and slightly-salted breast of pork may be
used, while both the ham and the bacon may be excluded under certain
circumstances.


229—FINE OR BORDELAISE MIREPOIX

Coarse Mirepoix, which are added to certain preparations in order to
lend these the proper flavour, are generally made immediately before
being used, but this is not so in the case of the finer Mirepoix, which
chiefly serves as an adjunct to crayfish and lobsters. This is made in
advance, and as follows:—

Cut into dice four oz. of the red part only of carrots, the same
quantity of onion, and one oz. of parsley stalks. In order that the
Mirepoix may be still finer, these ingredients may now be chopped, but
in this case it is advisable to thoroughly press them in a corner of a
towel, so as to squeeze out their vegetable moisture, the mere process
of stewing not being sufficient for this purpose.

Should this water be allowed to remain in the Mirepoix, more
particularly if the latter must be kept some time, it would probably
give rise to mustiness or fermentation.

Put the ingredients into a small stewpan with one and one-half oz. of
butter and a little powdered thyme and bay, and stew until all are well
cooked. This done, turn the preparation out into a small bowl, heap
it together with the back of a fork, cover it with a piece of white,
buttered paper, and put aside until wanted.


230—VARIOUS SALPICONS

This term stands for a certain preparatory method applied to a series
of preparations.

Salpicons are _simple_ or _compound_. Simple if they only contain one
product, such as the meat of a fowl, or of game, butcher’s meat, foie
gras, various fish, ham or tongue, mushrooms, truffles, &c. Compound if
they consist of two or more of the above-mentioned ingredients which
may happen to combine suitably.

_The preparatory method_ consists in cutting the various ingredients
into dice.

_The series of preparations_ arises from the many possible combinations
of the products, each particular combination bearing its own name.

Thus Salpicons may be Royal, Financier, Chasseur, Parisien,
Montglas, &c.; of whichever kind, however, Salpicons are always
incorporated with a vehicular sauce which is in accordance with their
constituents.


231—BATTER FOR VARIOUS FRITTERS

Put into a bowl one lb. of sifted flour, one-quarter oz. of salt, one
tablespoonful of oil or melted butter, and the necessary quantity of
barely lukewarm water. If the batter is to be used at once mix the
ingredients by turning them over and over without stirring with the
spoon, for this would give the preparation an elasticity which would
prevent its adhering to immersed solids. Should the batter be prepared
beforehand, however, it may be stirred, since it loses its elasticity
when left to stand any length of time.

Before using it add the whites of two eggs whisked to a froth.


232—BATTER FOR VEGETABLES (Salsify, Celery, &c.)

Put one lb. of sifted flour into a bowl with one-quarter oz. of salt
and two tablespoonfuls of oil or melted butter. Dilute with one egg and
the necessary quantity of cold water. Keep this batter somewhat thin,
do not stir it, and let it rest for a few hours before using.


233—BATTER FOR FRUIT AND FLOWER FRITTERS

Put one lb. of flour into a bowl with one-quarter oz. of salt and
two tablespoonfuls of oil or melted butter. Dilute gradually with
one-quarter pint of beer and a little tepid water.

When about to use the batter mix therewith the whites of two eggs
whisked to a froth.

N.B.—Keep this batter thin, if anything, and above all do not stir
overmuch.


234—BATTER FOR OVEN-GLAZED FRUIT FRITTERS

Mix one lb. of flour with two tablespoonfuls of oil, a grain of salt,
two eggs (added one after the other), the necessary quantity of water,
and one oz. of sugar. Keep this preparation in a lukewarm place to let
it ferment, and stir it with a wooden spoon before using it to immerse
the solids.

_Remarks._—Batter for fruit fritters may contain a few tablespoonfuls
of brandy, in which case an equal quantity of the water must be
suppressed.


235—PROVENÇALE (preparation for stuffing cutlets à la Provençale)

Put one pint of Béchamel into a vegetable-pan and reduce it until it
has become quite dense. Thicken it with the yolks of four eggs, and
finish it away from the fire with a crushed piece of garlic as large as
a pea, and one-quarter lb. of grated cheese.
