INCLUDED TEXT:

CHAPTER XXII

DRINKS AND REFRESHMENTS


N.B.—The quantities given below are calculated to be sufficient for
fifteen glassfuls.


2934—BAVAROISE

Work eight oz. of powdered sugar with eight egg-yolks in a saucepan,
until the whole becomes white and reaches the _ribbon_ stage. Then add
consecutively: one-fifth pint of capillary syrup, one pint of freshly
made, boiling hot tea, and the same amount of boiling milk; whisking
briskly the while, that the drink may be very frothy. Complete at the
last moment with one-third pint of the liqueur which is to characterise
the Bavaroise, _i.e._, either Kirsch or Rum.

If the Bavaroise be flavoured with vanilla, orange or lemon, let the
flavour infuse in the milk for fifteen minutes beforehand. If it be
flavoured with chocolate, dissolve six oz. of the latter, and add the
milk to it, flavoured with vanilla.

If it be coffee-flavoured, set three oz. of freshly-torrified and
_concassed_ coffee to infuse in the milk or flavour with one pint of
freshly-made coffee.

Bavaroise is served in special glasses, and it must be frothy.


2935—BISCHOFF

Put into a basin one bottleful of Champagne, one Sherry-glassful of
“tilleul” infusion, one orange and one lemon, cut into thin slices, and
enough syrup at 32° to bring the preparation to 18°. Let maceration
proceed in the cool for an hour. This done, strain the whole; freeze
it like a Granité, and finish it with four liqueur-glassfuls of
liqueur-brandy.

Serve in bumpers.


2936—ICED COFFEE

Pour one and a half pints of boiling water, gradually, over ten oz. of
freshly-ground coffee, and strain it gently. Put this coffee into a
bowl with 20 oz. of loaf-sugar, and let the latter dissolve while the
coffee cools. Then add one quart of very cold, boiled milk, in which
half a stick of vanilla should have infused, and one pint of very fresh
cream.

Freeze the whole in a freezer, taking care to keep the preparation
almost liquid, and serve it in very cold cups.


2937—LEMONADE

Dissolve half-lb. of loaf-sugar in one quart of filtered water. Add
the juice and the _zests_ of the rinds of two lemons, and let infusion
proceed in the cool for three hours. Pass the whole through a fine
strainer; add one syphonful of seltzer water, and serve with a thin
roundel of lemon in each glass.


2938—PINEAPPLE WATER

Finely chop one and a half lbs. of fresh or preserved pineapple; put it
into a basin and pour over it one quart of boiling syrup at 20°. Let it
cool, and infuse for two hours.

Strain through a woollen bag; add a piece of ice and sufficient seltzer
water to reduce the liquid to 9°. Keep the preparation in the cool for
a further twenty minutes, and complete it, when about to serve, with
three liqueur-glassfuls of Kirsch.


2939—CHERRY WATER

Stone two lbs. of very ripe cherries, and rub them through a sieve. Put
the purée into a basin with the stones, crushed in the mortar, and let
the whole macerate for one hour. Then moisten with one pint of filtered
water, and strain the juice through a woollen bag, or muslin folded in
two and stretched.

Add a piece of well-washed ice and six oz. of loaf-sugar, and put the
whole in the cool for twenty minutes. Flavour, when about to serve,
with four liqueur-glassfuls of Kirsch.

The saccharometer should register 9° when inserted into this
preparation.


2940—RASPBERRY-FLAVOURED, RED-CURRANT WATER

Rub through a sieve, over a basin, twelve oz. of red and white
currants, and four oz. of very ripe raspberries. Add to the
currant-water one pint of filtered water, six oz. of loaf-sugar, and
one piece of washed ice. Keep the whole in the cool for twenty minutes,
and stir it from time to time with a silver spoon, that the sugar may
dissolve.

Degree the same as in Recipe 2939.


2941—MELONADE

Rub one lb. of just-ripe melon pulp through a sieve. Put it into a
basin and pour over it one pint of boiling syrup at 20°. Let the whole
cool and infuse for two hours, and strain it through muslin or through
a woollen bag. Add a piece of very clean ice and sufficient seltzer
water to reduce the syrup to 9°. Keep the preparation in the cool for
a further twenty minutes, and finish it, when about to serve, with two
tablespoonfuls of orange-flower water.


2942—KALTSCHALE

Peel and slice one-half lb. of peaches and an equal quantity of
pineapple; add four oz. of ripe, melon pulp, cut into dice, and
four oz. of a mixture of raspberries and red and white currants,
cleared of their stalks. Put these fruits in a silver timbale and keep
the latter on ice. Set a little cinnamon to infuse in a half-bottleful
of boiling, white wine; add six oz. of sugar and the _zest_ of one
lemon; and let the whole cool. Then add half a pint of a mixed purée of
strawberries and red-currants to this infusion.

Filter the whole, and complete it by the addition of a bottle of
champagne.

Pour this preparation over the fruit, and serve the timbale very cold.


2943—ORANGEADE

Proceed as for lemonade, but use the juice and _zests_ of orange rinds
instead of those of lemons, and the juice of only half a lemon. Put
very thin slices of orange in the glasses.


2944—PUNCH WITH KIRSCH

Throw a good half oz. of tea into one quart of boiling water, and let
it infuse for ten minutes. Put into a punch or salad-bowl one lb. of
loaf-sugar; strain the infusion of tea over the sugar, and dissolve the
latter; stirring the while with a silver spoon.

Add one and a half pints of Kirsch, set it alight, and serve in glasses.


2945—PUNCH WITH RUM

Make an infusion as above, with the same amount of tea and one quart of
boiling water. Strain it over one lb. of loaf-sugar, in a punch-bowl,
and let the sugar dissolve.

Add a few thin slices of lemon, and one and a half pints of rum, and
set light to it. Serve with a slice of lemon in each glass.


2946—PUNCH MARQUISE

Put into a small, copper saucepan one quart of Sauterne wine, half-lb.
of loaf-sugar, and the _zest_ of the rind of one lemon bound round a
clove. Dissolve the sugar; heat the wine until it becomes covered by
thin white froth, and pour it into a punch-bowl after having withdrawn
the _zest_ and the clove.

Add half a pint of burnt brandy; set it alight and let it burn itself
out.

Serve with a thin slice of lemon in each glass.


2947—ICED PUNCH

Prepare a Marquise Punch as above; when the wine is hot, take it off
the fire; throw in a good half oz. of tea, and let the whole infuse
under cover for ten minutes.

Pass the whole through a fine strainer; add one orange and one lemon,
peeled raw and cut into slices, and some heated rum. Set alight; leave
to cool, and reduce to 15°. Then freeze like a Granité, and serve in
glasses.


2948—HOT WINE

Pour one bottleful of red wine over ten oz. of loaf-sugar, set in a
small, copper basin. Dissolve the sugar. Add one orange _zest_, a bit
of cinnamon and mace, and one clove. Heat the wine until it is covered
by thin froth, and then pass it through a fine strainer.

Serve with a thin slice of lemon in each glass.


2949—HOT WINE WITH ORANGE

Pour half a pint of boiling water over ten oz. of loaf sugar. Add the
_zest_ of one orange and let infusion proceed for fifteen minutes.
Withdraw the _zest_, and mix one bottleful of heated Burgundy wine with
the infusion.

Serve with a roundel of orange in each glass.


2950—WINE A LA FRANÇAISE

Put eight oz. of sugar into a salad-bowl, and sprinkle thereon a few
tablespoonfuls of water, that it may dissolve. Add one bottleful of
excellent Bordeaux wine or red Burgundy, and the half of a lemon cut
into thin slices. Stir the whole well with a silver spoon and serve
with a slice of lemon in each glass.

N.B.—Always remember to free the lemons and oranges used of all pips,
which would lend a bitterness to the drink.


2951—CLARET CUP

Put into a crystal bowl one oz. of loaf-sugar, the rind of one lemon
and three slices of the latter, an equal quantity of orange, one
strip of cucumber peel, one tablespoonful of Angostura Bitter, and a
liqueur-glassful of each of the following liqueurs:—Brandy, Maraschino
and white Curaçao.

Complete with one and a half bottles of red wine and a bottle of Soda.
Cover and let the whole infuse. Strain, add a few pieces of very clean
ice and a few leaves of fresh mint.
